## [HSF][Film] Primer

### Post:

Primer is one of the more interesting time travel films I've ever seen. It deals with a few engineers discovering a time travel device/mechanic that is then exploited and explored throughout the film. It is a very challenging film to watch, and rewards rewatching the film after having seen it at least once. It is rare for a movie to so reward thought and analysis. 

I suggest watching the movie 'blind', with the following knowledge only:

1. Exposition is sparse and will not be spoonfed to you as it is in many films; pay attention and try to infer what's going on

2. If your hearing isn't great or you are listening to it quietly out of consideration for others, consider getting subtitles on, as there is some dialogue that may otherwise be unclear

3. Part of the film is very confusing, and will almost certainly confuse anyone the first time they see the film, and if you get lost keep going and try to make sense of it but don't worry. 

Go watch it. I believe it's on Netflix and other streaming services, and a quick google revealed a Youtube upload of dubious legality. Come back here after watching.

There have been several analyses of Primer, of various detail levels. My favorite is first the one hosted on qntm.org, where Ra is hosted:

[Time Travel In Primer Explained](http://qntm.org/coffin)

[Plot of Primer Explained](http://qntm.org/primer)

It's a really interesting thought experiment about a couple of guys who are ethically not terribly advanced but technically capable, blundering into something they can't really understand or deal with. The characters by and large do things smartly and intelligently. 

[Here](http://cdn.unrealitymag.com/wp-content/uploads/2011/09/primer-chart.jpg) is an attempt someone made at graphing the movie out, where yellow segments are the bits that ended up on film. The film is like an iceberg - a tenth of it is visible, and the rest can be mostly inferred from the bits we do see.

The film is my favorite time travel film ever, and one of my favorite films ever.

### Comments:

- u/alexanderwales:
  ```
  There's just one thing that bothers me in this movie. [Primer spoiler](#s " There's a certain point in the film where they happen upon Granger, who has traveled through time, and for some completely unexplained reason, whenever Granger and Aaron get close to each other they both fall unconscious. It makes no sense with the time travel rules that the movie has set up, and is never touched on again. No explanation of the film's plot touches on this piece of information. I consider it to be the film's one flaw, and the fact that practically no one ever mentions it says to me that most people prefer to ignore it.")
  ```

- u/1794:
  ```
  I can't believe this hasn't been posted here already.

  This is one my favorite films of all time. I watched it like five times during the same day. I loved the feeling of being completely disoriented during the first time, but the feeling of the initial puzzling wading away was also fantastic.
  ```

---

