## [MK][D] The Shadowrun pen'n'paper has a cheap timed-selfreverting self-Obliviate. How to munchkin?

### Post:

Do you know Shadowrun? Its this weird dystopian High-tech High-Fantasy setting, where machinegun swinging Trolls are hired to perfom criminal activities against giant corporations. Quite fun. Just found out there is two really cheap really exploitable magical abilites: 

Memory Displacement

An adept with Memory Displacement is capable of removing a specifically chosen group of memory from her brain for a predetermined length of time. Memory Displacement requires
the user to concentrate for about 5 seconds to activate. During this time, the character has no way to recollect the memories in question. As a consequence, the memories cannot be recovered through Interrogation, Intimidation, or mental manipulation spells. No amount of questioning will reveal that the character ever possessed these memories. Once the predetermined amount of time has passed, the adept’s memories return to normal.  

The other is Eidetic Sense Memory. 

An adept with this power has the ability to memorize all types of sensory input. Besides perfect photographic visual memory, the adept can recollect sounds, textures, tastes, and smells—and any combination thereof. The adept can recall these sensory impressions at will, and will remember who or what they have memorized in future encounters. The adept can also photo-read, greatly increasing their reading speed.

Fun and potential are enourmos. An undercover agent scans the entire (digitally available) database of coworkers/layouts etc,  goes undercover with their OWN identity erased. They have a staggered rolling set of returning memories. They know nothing interesting except they really should go to the bathroom at 2 o'clock, except maybe that things are not running as smoothly as they should for Wage Accountant Henry Smith.

Sitting there stuff comes back; enough to check upon progress and plot new stuff, or even everything- you can just erase again, right? Leave the next steps in place. Thats as far as I have gotten. 

### Comments:

- u/Farmerbob1:
  ```
  How many memory timeframes can be adjusted?  If the memory recall is all or nothing, it can still be useful, but if it can be staged like a domino effect over time then it can conceivably be extraordinarily useful in the right scenario.
  ```

- u/mhd-hbd:
  ```
  If you play it like the BBEG lich from Two Year Emperor, you could topple governments. With perfect sleeper agents and multiple sets of forgotten memories.
  ```

---

