## [RST] Eifelheim by Michael Flynn: A story of First Contact, set in Germany 1349.

### Post:

I came across this book by pure chance, and the entire thing held me gripped from the start.

It's a story about contact with aliens, but of two kinds. There are the aliens the story introduces, but also the aliens of who human beings used to be. The main character is a natural philosopher turned priest who still subscribes to the geocentric model of the universe as well as the classical model of the four elements. When he encounters the new wonders the aliens have brought, he adapts to them by placing them within his already cemented worldview, such as accepting that electricity is a blending of Fire and Water, or that radios communicate by being linked through the ether.

The story is very blunt about how people used to be, and in some ways how they still are. But it portrays each and every character without bias, and the narration neither praises nor condemns the aspects of feudal life which are now long past.

On the other side of the narrative coin, in modern times a scholar is trying to figure out why the town of Eifelheim was abandoned, and not resettled for hundreds of years, and his wife is a physicist working on what might be the next great paradigm shift of universal models, and these two mysteries blend amazingly well with the narrative of the past, where the reader learns something on one stream which allows the story in the other to push forward.

### Comments:

---

