## GEB Discussion #11 - Chapter #10: Levels of Description, and Computer Systems

### Post:

**Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid**

This is a discussion of the themes and questions concerning the **Chapter 10: Levels of Description, and Computer Systems** and its dialogue, **Ant Fugue**.

**Layers and Layers**

In this chapter, Hofstadter is explaining a very basic idea with multiple examples. Every system has multiple levels from which one can understand, or use, the system with different perspectives. Cognitive Science describes [Marr’s Level of Analysis]( http://blog.shakirm.com/2013/04/marrs-levels-of-analysis/) where complex systems are described using three levels.

* The Computational Level is the goal or purpose of the system. Sometimes it can describe the behavior or actions of the system when no goal can be observed.

* The Algorithmic Level is how the system attempts to reach the goal or how it carries out its function/behavior.

* The Implementation Level is the physical construct of the system or how is the system physically created.

Marr’s Level of Analysis is about how complex systems can be simplified to better understand how the system works without limiting oneself to a single aspect/level of the system.

……

**Fundamental Level**

All of this talk about levels brings up an interesting point. No matter what we do or how many levels we view reality from above, everything is reducible to the basic interactions between quarks. Reality only has one level, and all other levels are purely a product of your brain in an attempt to extract the most useful information quickly. Yes, viewing reality from multiple levels is useful, but do the ‘extra’ levels have any meaning outside of your mind? Can you say that a system has multiple levels if there is no one around to use the system or understand the multiple levels?

What do you think is the relationship between Zen and multiple levels?

……

**Dialogue**

Because I had a lot of trouble reading the drawing (it’s not shown very well on my computer), I’ll describe it here for anyone with the same problem. It’s simply the word MU with M composed of the word ‘holism’ with its letters further composed by the word ‘reductionism’ and with U composed by the word ‘reductionism’ with its letters further composed by the word ‘holism’. Also if you can see it at a small enough resolution, you’ll see that all of the smallest letters are further composed of MU. Here's a link to the [image](http://i.imgur.com/vAZi1Zt.png) thoughtfully provided by /u/markus1189.

What is the definition of ‘holism’ and ‘reductionism’, and how do their meanings relate to each other and MU? (I know that this is answered in the dialogue, but I feel this question is important enough that everyone should try answering it in their own words to grasp the connections between the concepts.)

Reductionism as applied to the ant colonies seem to result in explaining Aunt Hillary as a consequence of statistical trends, but holism explains Aunt Hillary as the sum of all of her ants. How can the concept of Mu be related, if at all, to Aunt Hillary and the reductionism/holism viewpoints?

How does this dialogue can be related to the MU drawing and the musical concepts Hofstadter brings up?

I have a marvelous explanation of how the **Prelude** relates to the **Ant Fugue** and all of the musical concepts involved, but unfortunately, this margin is too narrow to contain it.

Wikia Links:

* [Chapter 10]( http://godel-escher-bach.wikia.com/wiki/Chapter_10)

* [Ant Fugue](http://godel-escher-bach.wikia.com/wiki/...Ant_Fugue)

Coming up next on April 16th is Chapter XI: Brains and Thoughts.

The discussion for the previous chapter is posted [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/320w69/geb_discussion_10_chapter_9_mumon_and_g%C3%B6del/).

The discussion for the next chapter is posted [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/32tmv5/geb_discussion_12_chapter_11_brains_and_thoughts/).

[Official Schedule](http://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/2yys1i/lets_start_the_read_through/).

### Comments:

---

