## Rationalist Music, Pt. 2 [RT]

### Post:

A while back, we had a thread on Rationalist music, much of which ended up being Rational music, due to the seeming dearth of songs which teach techniques at all, let alone rationalist ones.  I was listening to some tunes today and stumbled across one I thought might count as Rational to at least some degree, so I figured I'd try reviving the thread and see if anyone has any thoughts.  
  
By the time the last thread went cold, we'd seen several suggested songs, though no real criteria had been decided upon past that which we use to judge rational(ist)ism in stories and such.  I'll list the suggestions here.  
- The Symphony of Science by John Boswell  
- The Ballad of Smallpox Gone by Leslie Fish  
- Various songs for solstice rituals (linked in the first thread)  
- Singularity by The Lisps  
- The Singularity by Miracles of Modern Science  
- Song of Myself by Nightwish  
- Storm by Tim Minchin  
- Comedown's Worse, Harder Hit, and Time Bending by Loquat  
- Butterflies and Hurricanes by MUSE  
  
Some further suggestions that I'd like to make, to kick things off:  
- Pretty much anything by Tim Minchin; a personal favorite is Naughty from his musical version of Dahl's Matilda  
- Several other songs by MUSE, particularly Madness  
- Ohio by CSNY, which continues to serve as a potent reminder of the high cost of apathy/procrastination  
  
And finally, I'd like to pose a question to start debate.  Certainly songs that feature/promote rationalism count; but how about songs that simply encourage sentiments or mindsets key to rationalism? By that standard, I think we'd have a much larger pool of songs that'd count: e.g., something like Baba Yetu, which despite being based on the Our Father, is perhaps the most pure form of inspiration I've ever heard--especially since it's forever paired in my mind with the trailer for Civ V, depicting the rise of man from first fire to final utopia.
  
So yeah: what does everyone think?


### Comments:

- u/Sailor_Vulcan:
  ```
  I actually wrote a rational transhumanist version of MUSE's "Map of the Problematique", as well as several other rational/rationalist songs, but after extensive research and what felt like traversing multiple footnote labyrinths, I have no idea where or how to get them performed without getting them stolen or never getting heard. It seems like my best bet is to start a band, but I don't know how to do that.
  ```

- u/AnonymityPower:
  ```
  some stuff by Voltaire fits IMO:

  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q-PX2Z4r-e4
  ```

- u/DataPacRat:
  ```
  As an aside, I downloaded a copy of "Ballad of Smallpox Gone" as an MP3 before Grooveshark imploded, so if someone can clarify its copyright status, I might be able to make it available again.
  ```

- u/callmebrotherg:
  ```
  Thank you for introducing me to Tim Minchin. This guy's great. 

  Also *Singularity* (both of them, but especially the one by The Lisps).
  ```

- u/TimTravel:
  ```
  I'm fond of Bach for brain food.
  ```

---

