## Munchkin this magic system

### Post:

For a while, I've been working on the background for a roleplay. The fundamental caveat is essentially, that each character requested the enchantement of an item (creating a "talisman") from a magic-imbuing object when they were sixteen (the age wouldn't actually matter, it's just when the fictional society feels its citizenry are mature enough to make a responsible request.)

Now, the caveats of the talisman system are as follows-

* Each person can only get one talisman enchanted, period.   This is a fundamental restriction of talisman-granting object.  
* Talismans are transferable (can be bought, sold, or stolen.)
* The magic-imbuing object is not any smarter than a human, and talismans that require information greater than that which a human can comphrehend cannot be created.
* The power of any individual talisman is auto-balanced by the talisman granting object, so no individual talisman is objectively any better or worse than any other talisman. Balancing almost always takes the form of either limiting how often a talisman can be used (ex. Once per day, or once per moon), or inserting a prerequisite to use the talisman (will only work on blue moons, will only work for a user once, will only work once period, will only work in the presence of a blood sacrifice, etc.) how a talisman has been balanced isn't immediately apparent. It may take some testing to find out, and for talismans with particularly large drawbacks, may never be found out.  
* Drawbacks to a talisman cannot be requested. Any drawbacks requested are treated as a feature, and require even more drawbacks.
* A broken talisman will result in one of two things. If the power of the talisman is intrinsically tied to the talisman itself (for example, a talisman that gives a sword the ability to cut through rock), the power of the talisman will vanish until such a point as the talisman in question is repaired to functionality.  
* A talisman ceases to function immediately after the brain death of its creator. In the rare cases where that person is somehow brought back to life, their talisman will remain nonfunctional and they will be unable to create a new talisman.  
* Talismans violate conservation of energy, because magic.

For some examples of talismans (to demonstrate their general power level):

A talisman given the general power to create fire may maintain a candle flame indefinitely, or briefly summon small fireball. Alternatively, it may serve as a flamethrower, but only on every third day.

If the talisman levitates objects, it may be restricted to a certain class of object (ex. Furniture, wooden objects) or have a usage limit (any one object, but only once per month, or only for ten minute periods, followed by 20 minute cooldowns.)

In any case, the exact effect of the talisman varies based on the intentions of the creator.

Now, how do you think a *society* can munchkin this system? Individuals can't do so, because of the inherent balancing, but a group of talismans can be a lot more than the sum of its parts. For example, I already plan to have a clockpunk guild where the requirement for entry is to have a talisman be a perpetually rotating key, in order to run, the infrastructure of the country.

Keep in mind that this civilization is a few hundred years less advanced than our own, so stuff like batteries and rockets aren't well know. For the sake of argument, assume about early renaissance technology.

Edit: after some feedback, I've decided to create a more consistent approach to balancing. I'll post it ASAP, but it'll take a while because I just got my wisdom teeth pulled.

Edit 2: here's a slightly better balancing system, based on feedback:

* The super talisman is as intelligent as the human requesting the talisman. It will balance based on two factors how that person interprets the possible uses of the talisman (so if someone smarter than you thinks of a really powerful talisman, and tells you without telling you about the exact application, the talisman-granting object will underestimate the true power of the talisman.) The second factor is how powerful other talismans with similar abilities are- if you ask to create a fireball creation talisman, it will review other fireball-creation talismans for their drawbacks and how useful they've been. That is to say, the talisman granter will adjust the power of the same class of talismans over time. centuries ago, a fire-granting talisman would be a lot more useful, and therefore have larger drawbacks. With easier access to firestarters, fire granting talismans are comparatively less useful, so they lose some of their drawbacks.
* The super-talisman takes 12 hours to "think" about each talisman before granting them. It can think about an number of different talismans in parallel, each talisman with the intelligence of the person who requested the talisman.
* while the super talisman is only as intelligent as the person requesting the talisman, there is a single caveat to this- the super talisman has all information on how talismans have been used in the past, and can take that into account when reviewing drawbacks to a possible talisman. Furthermore, being willfuly ignorant about the potential power of the talisman is useless- if the talisman, given you knowledge, your intelligence, your capability at reasoning, and its information on talismans can determine the possible overpowered uses for the talisman that the person who formulated request of the talisman intended, it will take that intent into consideration for balancing.
* note, however, that the super-talisman isn't infallible, nor will it consider how people who didn't formulate or speak the actual request would use the talisman. If you tell your dumb friend to ask for a device wave to emit light waves at any point in the spectrum, the super-talisman may or may not figure out that the device can be used in an x-ray machine as you intended, but unless you thought of it yourself, it won't realize you can make an ion drive for a starship. (note: example is anachronistic with stated time period.)
* The super-talisman interprets wishes in terms of how the person asking for an enchantment would interpret them, but in a restrictive matter. That is to say, wording matters, but intention will still carry through. If you ask for "a shirt that improves speed" and you think that a shirt that improves speed just make you magically a faster runner, wearing the shirt will improve you speed, but because you'd realize speed =/= velocity, your speed would only increase in a straight line, so you couldn't also change directions or slow down faster. On the same thread, if you received instruction from someone else to make a talisman where you don't properly understand the talisman's function, because the intention is to create a new form of overpowered talisman where neither the talisman requester or talisman creator could deduce the method in which it would be overpowered, the super-talisman will give a best-guess interpretation, which rarely functions the way the person who created the talisman request intended.
* "Balanced" is determined by how people would perceive owning the talisman. That is to say, it's a cultural definition of fairness, which can be manipulated (and, invariably, is) I can't give exact definitions of balance, because this is intended to be a narrative tool that I can manipulate so that my player can't make their characters too powerful. For a general idea of the state of balanced, however, consider the following things: the most common "balanced" object is an indestructible key in an enclosure that rotates so that it produces a constant torque enough so that 2 of them, attached to wheels and axles, can move a small cart of produce at 10-15 miles per hour indefinitely. (note that the key needs to be removed to stop the rotation, or manually blocked from rotating, a key with on-off capability would produce less torque.) Furthermore, consider that the technology level is approximately early renaissance. (I'm going for clock punk.)
* Based on feedback, I'm changing the age where a talisman can be obtained to 16 and later. (or rather, it's between 15-16, as they're first able to get a talisman a set amount of time after conception, but 16 is the age used so assigning talismans is less of a logistical headache for the government.)

more feedback is welcome!

### Comments:

- u/TimeLoopedPowerGamer:
  ```
  Reddit has long been a hot spot for conversation on the internet. About 57 million people visit the site every day to chat about topics as varied as makeup, video games and pointers for power washing driveways.

  In recent years, Reddit’s array of chats also have been a free teaching aid for companies like Google, OpenAI and Microsoft. Those companies are using Reddit’s conversations in the development of giant artificial intelligence systems that many in Silicon Valley think are on their way to becoming the tech industry’s next big thing.

  Now Reddit wants to be paid for it. The company said on Tuesday that it planned to begin charging companies for access to its application programming interface, or A.P.I., the method through which outside entities can download and process the social network’s vast selection of person-to-person conversations.

  “The Reddit corpus of data is really valuable,” Steve Huffman, founder and chief executive of Reddit, said in an interview. “But we don’t need to give all of that value to some of the largest companies in the world for free.”

  The move is one of the first significant examples of a social network’s charging for access to the conversations it hosts for the purpose of developing A.I. systems like ChatGPT, OpenAI’s popular program. Those new A.I. systems could one day lead to big businesses, but they aren’t likely to help companies like Reddit very much. In fact, they could be used to create competitors — automated duplicates to Reddit’s conversations.

  Reddit is also acting as it prepares for a possible initial public offering on Wall Street this year. The company, which was founded in 2005, makes most of its money through advertising and e-commerce transactions on its platform. Reddit said it was still ironing out the details of what it would charge for A.P.I. access and would announce prices in the coming weeks.

  Reddit’s conversation forums have become valuable commodities as large language models, or L.L.M.s, have become an essential part of creating new A.I. technology.

  L.L.M.s are essentially sophisticated algorithms developed by companies like Google and OpenAI, which is a close partner of Microsoft. To the algorithms, the Reddit conversations are data, and they are among the vast pool of material being fed into the L.L.M.s. to develop them.
  ```

  - u/narfanator:
    ```
    Yeeeep. 

    +1 on investigating the universe based on "balance", +1 on human batteries.

    Makes a stasis talisman really useful.
    ```

  - u/ArgentStonecutter:
    ```
    Crapsack world, that was my first assumption on reaching the point where talismans are transferable.

    In that world the only rational thing to ask for is a talisman that confers a benefit only on the creator. The only way out is if the talisman-creator is not unique or is an attribute of the world, so competing societies can develop, and so liberal/enlightened societies where people can feel safe asking for talismans that can potentially be stolen or coerced would have a long term advantage.

    That also leads to more interesting stories, set in the early years of the growth of the great society. Or stories set in a world where a society has started a slide back towards totalitarianism, where the belief in the values of the enlightened society keeps people generating socially responsible talismans for a generation or two before the general realization hits... you could even toss in an Aesop for contemporary America and corporatism. :)
    ```

  - u/alexanderwales:
    ```
    To get a crapsack world like that I think you have to make some assumptions about how powerful a talisman actually is. Keeping a person alive is expensive, even if you're just doing the bare minimum. If you're keeping someone in chains, you still have another mouth to feed. Because you can't be cavalier about their death, you have to take at least moderately good care of them, which means some overhead associated with this operation.

    If the costs associated with keeping a person chained up in a dungeon aren't exceeded by the benefits of their talisman, a rational person wouldn't keep people locked up. If you can just take their talisman for yourself, then there's not much point making them slaves anyway; better to have them as laborers working the fields, because it's not like they can get their talismans back from men in suits of armor, sharp swords, and a talisman monopoly.

    So sure, if a talisman's upper limits allow it to produce enough food to feed a handful of people indefinitely, maybe you get people in dungeons. Otherwise, I don't really see it - keeping people in prisons is expensive, and labor is valuable.
    ```

- u/alexanderwales:
  ```
  The key is probably figuring out how this balancing system works and then exploiting its weak points. Can the balancing system make mistakes? The implication is that it doesn't take into account how two (or more) talismans can be combined, so that's at least one avenue of attack. Finding the function by which power is capped is supremely important; utility, lethality, energy output? There's some intelligence behind the handicapping, which means that it can be gamed to some extent, at least if we assume that the talismans are reasonably consistent in how or what they limit.

  Leaving that aside (because that's not your actual question), I would expect a society to:

  * Create an index of "known talismans" which most people are encouraged to draw from, to lower the costs associated with people trying to figure out the limitations of their talismans, and prevent them from creating "dud" talismans whose limitations are so restrictive that they're never known (and the talisman is thus never used).
  * Create standardized talismans. If there are a hundred talismans that all operate effectively the same, training people to use them is easier, and a replacement can always be procured. A prerequisite for quickly teaching people how to use something is ensuring that the tool always functions the same way.
  * Put talisman creation and distribution under control of the state. It's all well and good for people to want their own talisman, but there's not much practical reason to allow that. Have people create a specific talisman at the age of sixteen, then take that talisman from them and hand it over to a soldier as part of their "kit".
  * Because they stop working on brain death, talismans can be used for long-distance communication, though only in simple binary, and then with a bit of noise. Still probably useful.
  ```

- u/narfanator:
  ```
  The balance mechanism is insufficiently specified.

  That said, I'd look at effect magnification / reduction and talisman-effecting-talismans. A talisman that can only be used once recharged by one that's usable once per person recharged by one that's usable once per year recharged by one that's usable once per month... You see where I'm going.

  A talisman that makes something X times stronger - supply with a stronger initial force, chain a bunch together... done.

  A talisman that preserves a talisman after creator's brain-death. Again, chain it.
  ```

- u/IomKg:
  ```
  Is it guaranteed that the talisman will at least be usable once? if so all you need is a "generate a universe ending explosion" once for it to break the system.

  > Individuals can't do so, because of the inherent balancing

  You didn't really specify how the balancing works so it would depend on it,
  But if you could make a talisman that creates two 16 year old humans that will listen to all you tell them and then be eternally frozen in an alternate dimension to have a power multiplier, because you will just create two guys and tell them to create other talismans for you, in a possibly unending cycle.
  ```

  - u/Gurkenglas:
    ```
    The drawbacks may go beyond limited charges, OP also listed unknown-by-default conditions for the usage. I could imagine a plot where some omnicidal maniac makes a world-ender, finds out it doesn't seem to work, then "borrows" some amulet of meta-amulet divination to figure out that it only works at the peak of Mount Doom when the stars align 6 months from now. He then or later thinks of using the divination amulet on itself and finds that the drawback is that drawback and function [and creator?] of the target amulet also magically become known to a random amulet-user on the planet... our protagonist.
    ```

    - u/IomKg:
      ```
      Even so world a universe ender amulet would still count as a balance breaker as far as i am concerned.. 

      Not a bad story suggestion though :P
      ```

- u/Harkins:
  ```
  > Talismans are transferable (can be bought, sold, or stolen.)

  The common individual will never own a talisman, and the nobility will own millions. Individuals will be given very specific direction, on pain of death, as to what talisman they will be requesting and giving to the nobility. The age of granting is not 16, it is the youngest someone can reliably repeat their noble's order for a talisman. It's even younger in a failing state when the nobles get desperate.

  The nobility will be incredibly powerful, because they'll have a super-powerful once-per-decade talisman for each hour of the day. Nobility will be immortal, if the talismans can affect longevity at all, otherwise hereditary.

  The talismans the nobility request, however, will be so trivial they can be tested instantly, probably a mood ring. Think of old monarchies making alliances: they'd either explicitly swap family members as hostages or implicitly by marrying them off. The sending family would keep the hostage's talisman as a way to check in that that they're alive and in good health (or maybe even spy a bit).

  Nobles will live like dragons on hoards of talismans. There will be a lot done to ensure that their guards are loyal (eg. talismans to detect and punish theft). Because they'll want use of more talismans than they can hold, they'll rarely leave. But they might lend out a large part of their hoard to their armies to go seige another noble for their hoard. Actually, yeah, seiges will probably never happen if (as you say elsewhere) meta-talismans are rare. Offensive talismans will be more powerful than defensive talismans, much like nowadays artillery is more powerful than castles - so nobody builds them. But a hoard of talismans is so dang useful... yeah, really turns on how many defensive talismans you can accumulate. If a lot, castles. If not, endless total war.

  Fertility, reliable food, and maybe medicine (but not medical talismans used on plebs) are important to the nobles. Gotta keep the talismans working. You don't say if it's obvious look at a talisman if'll work or its creator has died, but that's a minor inconvenience for the noble: have a meta-talisman that detects dead talismans every so often.

  They'll have telegrams, too. It's hard now to imagine life when major news moved at about 4 mph (see The Discovery of France for an exploration of this), but it took a lot of time for major news (death of the king, war, etc.) to pass by rider and minor news could take much longer. This society will just require some kids to get talismans that can be used as telegrams. Even if you find some way to tweak your setup so talismans are tradeable but there are no god-kings, every farming village would want this.

  Actually, why not an assassination talisman? A noble orders a talisman that, when used, kills a specific named person to bump off a rival. Even if it's only useful once ever, that's fine, you get to kill that pesky rival without an invasion and then your guard puts the requestor to death - why waste fifty years of grain that could go to the peon who requested the talisman that keeps your fingernails manicured?

  etc, etc, etc. Total crapsack world.
  ```

- u/None:
  ```
  Not munchkinning, but I'd imagine that marriage would involve exchange of talismans, even if it was only symbolic.
  ```

---

