## [BST?][Not WIP] Ender's Bae Not-Teaser

### Post:

Below is the start of the first chapter of the fanfic I'm not writing, *Ender's Bae*, a parallel novel to *Ender's Game* from Petra Arkanian's perspective. I'll talk a bit first about the brainstorming I did and the writing process. 

One goal I had was to write like Card does. It's really hard! The characters use simple words and short sentences, and the narrator is constantly deep in their heads, like in HPMOR. You can't stray from that! It takes discipline, and it's hard. I keep wanting to cheat, and I can't just let the writing flow because I start writing like me and not like him.

Coming up with challenges and goals for Petra is hard. I decided to skip the crappy home life Ender and Bean had because Card basically covered all bases and we see in Bean's series that Petra's home life was fine. In Battle School things are easier: all the children being shits to each other, the shit teachers being shits to everyone, Bonzo being a giant shit like all the time. But Petra's story isn't one of perpetual persecution. She's respected, if a bit self-isolated, and she seems to bring a lot of trouble on herself by being kind of a shit to everyone. So I thought the story should be about how Petra sucks at working with people and accepting commanders. Like Bonzo is kind of an ass to her because Petra was such a goddamn pain all the time. And maybe she embarrassed him so he had to be real tight about discipline, or at least felt like he had to remasculinize himself. It would be neat to redeem Bonzo a bit and explain how he could've been a good commander if circumstances hadn't screwed him so much. He's a Battle School kid, he should be smart and capable.

I thought it'd be interesting if Petra's relationship with the teachers centered around her being an affirmative action type pick, with them wanting her to do good but not thinking for a minute she'll matter and she's like a super bitch to them. I don't really want this to be like a feminism or a social commentary thing but it's the conflict I came up with.

I'd also want to make the battles make a bit more sense. Formations should be a good idea or the kids wouldn't do them. They would outperform just having 40 kids attack in 4 teams while the commander shouts orders. Ender's genius was in his training, and without that having smart formations that work with the stars to cover angles make a lot of sense. The training wouldn't be about learning set formations for use in battle but about learning to recognize the important attributes of the layouts of stars and improvising a formation based on that. 

Petra is a commander and Ender is a soldier in her army, which is pretty interesting. The focus would have to not be on Ender, although as top soldier in the school obviously he'd be an important minor character. I think I'd have Petra think something about how Ender doesn't realize that he's still the number 1 soldier because she changes her battle strategy to keep him that way because it's good for morale or whatever.

I'm not sure what to do with Petra in her commander life. She's away from Bonzo and no longer chafing under the rule of others except the teachers. What's her goal and what's her struggle? She's apparently a good commander so it can't be that she's bad at working with people, so long as she's in charge. What is she doing with Dink? Is it enough to just enmesh the reader in her mind and get them as concerned about the win-loss record as she is, then Ender gets Dragon army, Phoenix gets rekted, she feels all the emotions, oh no? A lot of this is original material, but it has to fit into canon material that isn't designed for Petra to have a story. So I'm not really sure what to do with this very important part.

Anyway, here's the not-teaser, because I don't have the time to write this fic, but you can!

---

**“Frankly, we need more girls.”**

**“I thought the IF is immune to this crap.”**

**“As immune as the earth is to missiles.”**

**“So perfectly, as long as we do our job.”**

**“Just one. Just one big story. A girl with test scores in the 90th percentile of our program and off-the-charts aggression and competitiveness. A girl who—“**

**“So she is a girl?”**

**“Additional tests have been requested.”**

**“Fine. If she is a girl, we’ll take her.”**

**“If?”**

**“With that level of aggression, she won’t be a commander.”**

---

Siranush withered inside when she was elected team leader during exercise. When Petra was assigned to her team, she despaired.

“Five of us stay back, and five of us attack,” she suggested. She tried to avoid Petra’s face. “I’ll stay back so I can watch. Who wants to attack?”

A few children raised their hands. Petra spoke. “That’s stupid. We should all attack. They’ll never expect it.”

“Then we might all get tagged.”

“We want more people to attack than defend,” Petra insisted. “Only three of us need to stay back if they stand close to the flag.”

Please, Petra, I’m your best friend. It’s only a game. “I’m team leader,” Siranush begged. “You can attack if you want.”

“It’s a dumb plan.”

“Well, it’s my plan.”

“Well, it’s dumb.”

Petra was always like this. Any game, she had to win. Not just win. She had to win in your face and let everyone know how much smarter she was than you. Even to her best friend.

“She’s team leader,” Reuben said. “Just let her pick the plan.”

“Why, so we can lose?” Petra looked at Reuben, who was big and kind, and Siranush could see the attack form in her eyes. “Got a crush, Reuben?” This earned a big “ooooh” from the others. “Or you just don’t feel like running, tubby?”

Reuben’s face turned pale. That wasn’t enough for Petra. Siranush knew she wouldn’t stop until Reuben was on the ground begging for mercy.

“Cut it out,” Siranush said before Petra could go any further. “We can use your plan. I don’t care.” She looked at her, begging with her eyes.

“Fine.” Petra shrugged, grinning. She had won, so now she was happy. Siranush wished she didn’t have to be her friend so Petra wouldn’t keep putting her through this.

The game started. Siranush hung back with two others. She was slightly annoyed to see they could cover most of the area if they stood in the right places. Petra went to the front, dancing across the line and hopping back to safety. Her monitor was clearly visible on the back of her neck.

Petra was the sixth fastest in their class at running across the field. But at capture the flag, she was the fastest. Siranush would never tell her, but part of the reason she wanted to hang back was to watch Petra run.

Petra made a rhythm, teasing the other team as she skipped across the line, bounced around, darted forward, and then back before anyone could get close enough to tag her. Defenders tried standing near her, but Petra just moved away from them. Eventually they ignored her in favor of others who were making runs at the flag. Again Petra danced across the line, bounced a bit, darted forward—and kept running. Everyone was too slow. She made it to the flag. Now she had to get back.

Petra didn’t wait to catch her breath. She started running. She didn’t need to look where the defenders were. Siranush had seen this happen before enough times to know that one glance was enough for Petra. She was running at an angle that led her away from the others. One boy was in her way, and she cut so sharply he stumbled and fell. It cost her time though, and another girl was streaking into her path. But the scariest thing about Petra was that she always had to win, no matter what. 

Petra fell forward into the path of the other girl, who didn’t have time to stop. Her legs collided with Petra’s arm, and she pitched forward, tumbling into the dirt. Siranush’s breath caught in her throat. Petra stood up and crossed the line.

“I win!” she announced, dropping the flag. “She didn’t tag me.” The other girl was on her side and crying, holding her wrist. 

“Petra!” the teacher said. “Petra Arkanian!”

Siranush shook her head. Now Petra was in trouble.

There were two men in black suits behind the teacher. “Come here, Petra,” the teacher said. “These nice men from the International Fleet want to see you.”

Siranush’s eyes flashed to the monitor on the back of Petra’s neck. Petra stood taller and walked to the men from the International Fleet.

---

Petra liked winning. She didn’t like being on a team. She was never leader, and even when she was, it was too hard to get the other children to do what she wanted. They didn’t understand things that were so obvious to her, and when she tried to explain they just stared blankly. Watching the leader make bad decisions was even worse. So Petra didn’t play on teams except when she had to.

The men from the International Fleet smiled at her, the big, exaggerated smile adults used for children. Petra glared at them until they stopped.

“These men say they need to perform some tests,” the teacher said.

“I already took the tests,” Petra said. It was true. They had been the hardest tests she had ever taken, completely unlike the tests she took in school. She hadn’t known all the answers and hadn’t even finished in time. It made her mad, but it also made sense. The I.F. was testing for the smartest, best children in the world to go to Battle School, which was in space, so they could protect Earth from the Buggers. If the tests were easy, then any idiot could get in.

---

And that's it. The next part would be Petra getting nekkid for the adult men to confirm her genitalia. If /u/EliezerYudkowsky has any tips for writing naked prepubescent girls, I'd appreciate that.

How would you write *Ender's Bae*? What would you do with Petra's time as the commander of Phoenix army? And I don't know, other stuff and questions, discuss things related to this. Go write this I'm busy.

### Comments:

- u/None:
  ```
  Please change the name. I threw up in my mouth a little.
  ```

  - u/omgimpwned:
    ```
    I laughed, but I agree - the name should be changed to something less cringe-worthy.
    ```

- u/eaglejarl:
  ```
  > And that's it. The next part would be Petra getting nekkid for the adult men to confirm her genitalia

  Why would that happen?
  ```

  - u/Transfuturist:
    ```
    Author Appeal, I suppose.
    ```

  - u/None:
    ```
    It's canon that Petra had to do extra tests to confirm her gender. It seemed like the obvious test, especially from a boy-this-military-bureaucracy-is-shitty-and-don't-treat-girls-good perspective. Also, lots of naked kids in battle school so establish Petra don't give a care.
    ```

    - u/codahighland:
      ```
      On the assumption that Ender's Game is set in the future of our own world, such a test -- even administered by a blunt, uncaring, sexist organization -- ought to be recognized as *medically* incorrect. If the obvious visual cues of Petra's physical sex aren't sufficiently convincing, then slightly-less-obvious visual cues aren't going to be sufficiently convincing either.

      The first step, for an organization aware of the existence of DNA and hormones, ought to be a blood test -- evaluating androgen and estrogen levels, and checking for a Y chromosome. After all, if you're already uncertain about her sex and your existing data doesn't make you convinced, "intersex" ought to be considered a possible conclusion.
      ```

    - u/Transfuturist:
      ```
      "extra tests"

      1. Why would tests be necessary?
      2. Why would the military care?
      3. Is this just Orson Scott Card being an incredible perv/misogynist?
      ```

      - u/None:
        ```
        They didn't think she was a girl because of her aggression scores. As for why Card wrote this or thought it was plausible, I dunno.
        ```

      - u/codahighland:
        ```
        The military would care because the military wants to know of any possible sources of future problems. A highly-aggressive woman is still within the scope of things they know how to handle, but a highly-aggressive crossdressing/transsexual/intersexed individual could warrant further monitoring for unforeseen complications.

        Ultimately it IS just wanting to retain complete control and authority over the soldiers. It's a power thing and a group dynamics thing. Outside of a military context, this is probably near-completely inappropriate. In a military context, it might still be, but the military essentially gets a pass on some inappropriate things because they're the military.
        ```

---

