## Rational Urban Fantasy Novel Idea - Low level WoD-esque d20 campaign.

### Post:

People have tried turning their DnD games into novels, which as we know usually ends poorly, but what happens if you start the campaign from the start with the intent to make a novel out of it?

A couple of friends and I have been doing something like that for fun, without putting actual numbers to it.  The idea is that we drop one deadpan snarker Genre Savvy nerd from the projects (Duncan), his street-savvy childhood best friend (Aidan), and a tomboy sporty girl (Sasha) from NYC straight into a WoD/Dresden Files/Nasuverse urban fantasy setting.  

The restriction so far is that everything they've encountered has an effective hit dice of 5 to 10, The PCs are currently a Level 1/1 Expert/Monk, Level 2 Monk, and Level 1/1 Rogue/Monk respectively.  

The story basically started with an attack by a squad of Unseelie Fae on Aidan's home in the middle of an Smash Brothers game, where he learned he was a decidedly NOT male Changeling of the Court of the Autumn Tree, a major court of the Sidhe and that he's regressing to his true form.  

We used a freeform system that plays more like a visual novel, with only mild DnD influences.  The storytelling would progress smoothly, then at a crucial moment (such as when a Duncan with multiple rib fractures tried throwing a blender at a Red Cap), I would have them make saving throws or attack rolls to determine if they succeeded.  My players had to pretty creative to survive the first encounter, and we had to use a checkpoint system because everyone kept dying.  After a couple of deaths using this system, the players got pretty creative at using the background items their advantage

While getting the living crap kicked out of him by a vastly physically superior, Duncan managed to take out one of the four gobins attacking them when a pixie's timely intervention and distracted the hulking, supernaturally muscular orc/goblin that was about to murder him in cold blood, he grabbed an iron toaster, jumped on its back, and strangled it by the toaster to take advantage of its weakness to the cold iron.  A whole bunch of other stuff happened, like Sasha ducking into a corridor to negate the wide swings the goblins loved with their poleaxes and ducking into the trees outside to hide.  

So in short, I'm looking for a good skills-based tabletop system to use that's conducive to a heavy visual novel type "roleplaying" experience with continuous progression, rather than the DnD 3.5e Modern we've been using.  I don't think the idea of designing a straight "nightmare mode" low level d20 campaign into a rational fic has occurred before, and I think it'll be interesting to pull off. 

Any suggestions to elaborate on this idea would be much appreciated.

### Comments:

- u/DaystarEld:
  ```
  The bones of the rationalist modern-horror/fantasy novel I'm currently writing came from a New World of Darkness campaign. I think it works pretty well for realism, personally: far better than most other systems like D&D or Dresden Files.

  Fun as those are, and conducive to storytelling, the players are very much meant to feel like heroes in them. In WoD, especially as a base human, there's nothing distinguishing you from anyone else, and you can very easily die or be badly maimed if you aren't careful, which promotes the kind of playstyle that reflects a realistic approach to problem-solving and story.
  ```

---

