## Looking for a Co-Author to help write and publish a rationalist sci-fi story

### Post:

I've had an idea percolating in my head for a while that as I work on it just continues to get more fantastic and detailed. It seems like an awesome premise for a book, and I'd really like to become a writer and publish my own story. However, while I think I'm a decent(ish) writer, its clear that I have much to learn and I'm not sure how far I will get undertaking an endeavor like this on my own. The idea is a bit bigger then me though, I think it could be extremely compelling and I don't want it to be grounded by my own shortcomings as a writer. Obviously I'll continue writing and thus improving my own abilities through my serial fiction like Fall of Oso, but I'm really ready to start something that could actually see the bookshelves. 

Thus I'm looking for a co-author, someone who is equally or more experienced as a writer, looking to make a name for themselves, and who has a passion for literature. I'll probably repost this on a few other writing subreddits, but you guys are *my* community and I <3 all of you, so I wanted to post here first and see if anyone here sees this as something they could sink their teeth into. 

So here is the synopsis to the story, and the background on the world it takes place in. 

Its 2246, and humanity has done some growing up in the intervening centuries between now and then. The human race has planted seeds on every planet and moon they could. 

On Mercury, giant crawlers holding entire colonies slowly trudge across the surface. Habitation centers lurk in the dark side, protected by the world's bulk from the sun's deadly glare, while on the daylit side, industrial facilities use that heat and light to melt down the regolith and fire iron slugs into orbit using kilometer long mass drivers. 

On Venus, a terraforming project is underway. Asteroids have been accelerated to high speed using fusion drives, and then slammed into the planet at an oblique angle to blast away the excess atmosphere and slowly increase the world's rotation speed. Colonies float in the upper atmosphere, harvesting off gases, compressing them, and then shooting them up out of the gravity well. Optimistic figures say that Venus may be habitable within a millenia. 

Earth is doing less well. The ecosystem is unable to keep up with the needs of its 40 billion strong population, and ecological decay is the new normal. Rampant pollution and climate change have wreaked havoc on the world's ecosystem. While the early and mid 21st century saw humanity take a turn away from fossil fuels and carbon pollution, by the time the year 2100 rolled around, over half the world's major cities had been flooded and ruined by rising sea levels. Coupled with the seeding of the inner planets and seeming inevitability of climate change, the major economic powers eventually gave up on saving the Earth, and returned to their polluting ways. During the next 150 years, the deterioration of the world only accelerated. The biosphere is just slowly coming apart at the seams, the sea levels are rising, desertification is rampant, and severe weather is common. It is predicted that in another 200 years, the atmosphere will be unfit to breath, as runaway greenhouse forces render the air toxic to human life. 

Mars is also being terraformed, with huge carbon furnaces intentionally belching tones of Co2 into the Martian atmosphere in an attempt to thicken it. Lichens and simple grasses have already been seeded onto the world, and from space, the formerly red world has turned green. The air is still far too thin to breath, and lacks oxygen, but progress is slow and steady. 

Billions call the asteroids and moons of the outer planets home, with colonies scattered everywhere from Ceres to Triton and everywhere between. Proposals for a Plutonian colony are made every few years, but plans have been slow to develop. 

Meanwhile, twelve generation ships have been built and fired out of the solar system. Giant O'Neill style colonies that will support their populations for the centuries long journeys to nearby stars.

Life for the people of the solar system has its ups and downs. Many independent colonies and worlds exist, with the government of Mars being the largest, but four megacorporations hold the lion's share of the power. The average person can expect to live into their 120s, but no farther then that. Cancer is cured in the sense that a cure exists, but people still die of cancer. All viruses and diseases are curable, but that doesn't stop millions from dying of them every year. These horrors are rarely showcased by the corporate owned media, instead keeping the citizenry satiated with entertainment and media. Everything from immersive VR worlds to lifelike sexbots exist, and their use is widespread. Schools and colleges are gone, replaced by software accessed from the home. Health care is great for those who can afford it, but the 1% keeps the prices inflated and keeps their citizenry buying what they could afford to give away. A good percentage of the population has dove headfirst into VR and never come up for air, preferring their fictional kingdoms and magic to the slowly decaying world they live in. 

Capitalism still holds tightly to the reigns of power, and while some colonies are run off socialist or communist or technocratic models, the system as a whole is still held in the grip of the capitalist imperative. 

With the Earth's biosphere in tatters, the terraforming of Venus and Mars unfinished, and the population endlessly booming, most of humanity's food is processed algae bricks farmed in giant orbital habitats. Real food is a luxury barely conceivable to most. 

Technology to indefinitely extend the human lifespan exists, technology to scan and back up a human mind to a server exists, and technology to copy, download, and merge human minds exists. But all of this is unavailable to the average member of society. The four megacorps controlling the system have clamped down hard on this technology, protecting it behind patents, trade agreements, and copyrights. The technology isn't expensive to make, but because of these protections, the promise of immortal life is forever outside the reach of the citizenry. Bones are thrown out to keep them happy and believing they have a chance to win access to the tech, but these bones are covered in blood and shame. 

Televised bloodsports like the Hunger Games, where the winner is granted immortality and the losers die in the process are commonplace, as are lotteries which promise a chance to win immortality, but in reality to nothing but drain the pocketbooks of the desperate masses. 

Enter our first character, an AI researcher who has spent the last twenty years slowly grinding away at the problem of AGI. While incredibly powerful, lifelike, and interactive Narrow AIs are common and everyday, serving every purpose from customer service to sexbots to frontline soldiers, a general purpose, human level, sentient AI has been a pipe dream for hundreds of years. Working from the small mobile colony on Mercury he lives at, this researcher is starting to think it might just be impossible to create an AGI. That is, until he gets an encrypted email from a satellite node orbiting at Jupiter's L2 point. In the mail, he finds something strange and incredible. 

Enter our second character. A twenty-something hotshot hacker working out of her own (stolen) ship and on the run from the corporate authorities has managed to crack the encryption on a corporate satellite in the asteroid belt, and extracted the technique to upload and digitize a consciousness. She realizes the technology isn't anything but off the shelf components used in a new way, and creates a digital copy of herself. She's being hunted down by faster, newer ships and knows she doesn't have much time. So she fires off the digital copy into space, bouncing it through VPN tunnels, rogue open source satellites hosting pirated data, and sending her digital consciousness careening across the solar system at the speed of light. Where does she send it? Well, on the run, abandoned by her fellow hackers for her going to far and raising the alarms of the megacorporations, and blacklisted by the corporations, she sends it to the one person who might be able to do some good. An AI researcher who, for the last twenty years, has been advocating for free life extension and the open sourcing of this restricted technology. 

The AI Researcher is a law abiding man. While he will talk a big talk about ending death, uplifting humanity, and all the great and grand endeavors that man should be undertaken, he has never actually stood up to the corporations. Now, he's just been handed the keys to the kingdom, only those keys are connected by a trail of data to some very unpleasant people who very much do not want to see this technology reach the light of day. He has some new tools at his disposal though. Not only is there a sentient, digital consciousness living on his home computer which holds the keys to mind uploading, but by studying the base code of the uploaded hacker, he's able to make some crucial insights into how to put an AGI together, and assembles a new consciousness from scratch using this method for the first time in history.

The digital girl, the AI researcher, and the AGI are thus thrown into a pitched battle against the corporations hunting them down. Their goal: cure death for everyone once and for all.

There's obviously much more to it that I've worked out, but :spoilers: and so on. I'd really really like to create something publishable, so if this seems like an awesome world to you, commit or PM me and lets collaborate! 

### Comments:

- u/eaglejarl:
  ```
  Interesting premise, and your synopsis is well enough written that I would read the book. 

  There's a few questions that I think you need to answer; I'll apologize in advance for the brusque tone of some of them, but they're important. 

  ----

  1) You want to publish this. Atoms or electrons?

  If atoms, publishing house or POD?  Why?

  2) Why publish? 

  Do you want the social proof of saying "I published something?" If so, take one of your existing (finished) stories and put it on Amazon. I'll be happy to talk you through the process; start to finish it will take about an hour. 

  Do you want to be recognized by a big-name publishing house? That's really hard to do and will take a lot of time and effort on your part. The opportunity costs are very high, so why is it worth it to you?

  Do you actually want to make money?  If so, do basically anything else. Income from publishing a novel is for crap, especially since Amazon's changes to Kindle Unlimited in July. 

  3) What do you want your co-author to do?  

  How do you envision this working -- you write the odd-numbered chapters and zie does the even-numbered ones? You do setting and worldbuilding, they do the actual writing? You collaboratively work on everything?

  None of these are great models. Co-authorship of fiction is pretty rare, because fiction doesn't lend itself to being done by two people at once; usually when you see two names on the cover it means that one is a big name who is helping launch a smaller name. You don't have that cachet to lend, and you claim that you don't have the chops to write this yourself. (Although I suspect you could.)


  4) What's in it for your co-author?

  You've heard the phrase "ideas are worthless, only execution matters"?  Well, it applies here. There's no money in this book, so what does the other person get? You've already provided the setting and premise, so there's no reason someone couldn't be inspired by this and write it themselves. What do you have to offer that would make someone want to put in the effort of collaborating?  Before you spread the call around the Internet, I suggest having an answer to that, as it will make it much more likely that you'll get a taker. 

  ----

  You've got a great setting here, and your synopsis was really engaging. Instead of beating the bushes for a co-author, I suggest just writing it. Post your chapters here as you go; you'll get lots of feedback that will be useful when you do the editing phase, and then you can publish it all on your own. 

  Again, I'm happy to talk to you about publishing on Amazon if you're interested.
  ```

- u/gvsmirnov:
  ```
  Promising. Might be a good idea to throw a challenge to write a ~2K words oneshot in this setting, it would be much easier to get someone and gauge their skills in writing, worldbuilding, and all that.
  ```

- u/OrzBrain:
  ```
  That sounds very cool (and actually somewhat similar to a setting I came up with at one point).

  Question: Why aren't the corporations taking advantage of the incredible earnings potential of strong AI? Are they that stupid that they don't see the potential? Is it considered very difficult (if so, why don't the corporations have everything the heroes have in their labs -- uploads, brilliant researchers, etc.?)? Is it illegal? Is is illegal and everyone with enough power has done it on the sly and is currently trying to keep their skynetish strong AIs boxed while getting useful work out of em and the whole thing is a powder keg about ready to blow up unless something outside the system saves them? (That was what I went with in my setting.)
  ```

  - u/Sagebrysh:
    ```
    the corporations have been hammering away at Strong AI like everyone else, and the AI researcher character in the story would have been working for one of the corporations on just such a purpose at the beginning. Everyone wants strong AI.

    But the corporations are also very protective of the intellectual property rights, and they don't just let their AI researchers have access to the uploaded consciousnesses of their 1% leaders. The uploads are treated as an entire separate branch of research and technology, one that's 'finished' already. They have uploads, they work, they use them to back up their rich and important people. That's all the tech needs to do. The idea of applying it back to AI research isn't something that has occurred to them "you want us to let some AI researcher tinker with and possibly damage the upload of XYZ important person? What if they torture the upload into giving up trade secrets? What if they make secret copies of the upload and dissect them for trade secrets? Better to just keep it all sealed up in a nice neat bow.
    ```

    - u/OrzBrain:
      ```
      That sounds very well thought out.

      What about running uploads of AI researchers at accelerated speeds as in Vinge's Cookie Monster?

      *

      *

      Sorry. Every setting can have holes poked in it. If authors plugged all the possible holes nothing would get written.
      ```

      - u/Sagebrysh:
        ```
        The answer to "Why don't the corporations just do X" with restricted technology is always going to be that the technology is restricted. Why would they let a *mere* AI researcher have access to the technology they reserve for their cabal of rich snobs? Being an AI researcher is a fairly mainline middle class career. No one's going to pay the license fees to upload an AI researcher when they could use that money to repaint their private spacecraft.
        ```

        - u/OrzBrain:
          ```
          Yeah, corporations not rational, even though they are people. When's Texas going to execute one?
          ```

- u/blockbaven:
  ```
  looking for someone to do work for me
  ```

---

