## OMG I've finally reached book 10 of the Schooled in Magic series! (spoilers)

### Post:

So just a recap of the 9th book: [Spoiler](#s "Alassa and Imaiquah have left Whitehall school for their careers as crown princess and noblewoman respectively, Grandmaster Hasdrubal is dead because of events of book 8 and there's a new Grandmaster who doesn't like Emily and wants her out of the school. Emily gets put on probation and she has a shitton of responsibilities that she has to take care of during the school year, including helping Prof Locke with his history research, and she's wearing herself out and doesn't have enough time to do everything she needs to do, like her super important joint project with her boyfriend Caleb which she needs a passing grade on in order to pass the year. Emily and another probationary student named Cabiria help Prof. Locke investigate the Tunnels deep below Whitehall school, leading them to Old Whitehall school. Emily sees a statue of herself except with a scar on the statue's face, and can't figure out where it came from. Locke discovers a library that's warded to keep out intruders. Locke touches a crystal thing in what later turns out to be the control center for the entire school, school's interior completely rearranges, cutting them off from the outside world due to the fact that much of the school exists in a pocket dimension so that it's insides can be bigger than its apparent outsides. More teachers come down to help investigate, they mess with the magic in the control center and the school starts collapsing. Books are stolen from the warded library found earlier, and Emily's magic signature is found all over the room, though Emily knows she didn't steal them, and she didn't have time to steal them, and everyone knows that. Emily and one of her close friends do a soul-magic ritual to determine whether anyone is using Emily's blood to control or influence her from a distance, and they find out that no one is messing with her mind or behavior like that, meaning that whoever stole the books had to have faked Emily's magic signature, which everyone knows is impossible. Emily does some research, realizes that the spellwork in the control center are actually in the form of magical computer programs, due to a strange similarity to her own joint project. She goes down to the control room and fixes the broken spellware, saving the school. Then someone controls her in a way that is obviously blood magic to force her to go back down to the Nexus chamber (the Nexus is the magical energy source which powers the school). Emily breaks the control but not fast enough, and a mysterious person shoves her into the nexus. Emily gets sent back in time to the era of the ancients when Whitehall school was founded and meets Lord Whitehall himself, saves his life by helping him and his friends tame the Nexus.")

I have a theory that [Spoiler](#s "the person who stole the books from the library WAS Emily herself (except older), having come back to the present after going back in time, and that it was older Emily who had cut *herself* to take control of younger Emily using blood magic (since they have the same blood!)")

Now I'm reading book 10 and I'm so excited!

For those of you who haven't started reading Christopher Nutall's "Schooled in Magic" series, why aren't you reading it now? It's intelligent, rational, VERY well written, and very unique. I know it costs money, but not that much and it's totally worth it! (not the free version on spacebattles, that one is known to be crap).

### Comments:

- u/OrzBrain:
  ```
  The problem with these books is the author doesn't want to kill his cash cow. He teases all these nifty things -- magic based computers and AI, magic based fusion bombs, etc, but they never come to much, because if they did that would end the series as formulated and he couldn't write more of the books. 

  The meat of the plot in each book seems to get slimmer and slimmer, with more and more dull phoned in filler, like even the author is getting bored with stretching it out. He should have brought the series to a bang up conclusion long ago.

  Great books are made when the author creates a setting he loves, then takes a hammer and multiple atom bombs to it so we can appreciate the beauty and the horror as it shatters and dies and changes into something new. That's what Vernor Vinge does. When the author goes all Gilligan's Island/Lost like Christopher Nutall has with this series, and refuses to break or change his creation, then the interesting parts whither away to dry filler leavened with a little spark of teasing at the climax of each book, as time and book after book go by. 

  And the writing quality goes down because the author gets bored, too.
  ```

- u/ToaKraka:
  ```
  [Goodreads entry for the series](http://www.goodreads.com/series/128629)

  Previous discussions:  
  [2016-05-29](http://np.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/4liw21)  
  [2016-03-26](http://np.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/4bzdct)
  ```

- u/Escapement:
  ```
  > why aren't you reading it now?

  I honestly tried to read the first book, found it was not at all to my taste, and quit the series after finishing the first book. Does the story drastically & dramatically change in later books? If so, where?
  ```

  - u/GlueBoy:
    ```
    No. 

    I did the same, only I also skimmed the 2nd and 3rd book. Their quality is consistent(ly bad).
    ```

  - u/gommm:
    ```
    I've read until book 7 but I honestly would not qualify it as being rational. I've been frustrated more than once while reading the book because the characters make stupid decisions. 

    It can be fun to read as a guilty pleasure if you just want to pass time without thinking much but it's not great at all.
    ```

---

