## [RT][DC] Forty Millenniums of Cultivation - Chapter 10: Possessed by a Ghost

### Post:

#**Forty Millenniums of Cultivation (修真四万年)**

######**By Crouching Cow Honest Person (卧牛真人)**

***

####**[Announcement Post](https://friendshipispower.wordpress.com/)**

####**[Chapter 10](https://friendshipispower.wordpress.com/2016/11/01/chapter-10-possessed-by-a-ghost/)**

***

**Synopsis**

“Even if this universe is truly nothing more than a brutal, bloody, shadowy forest, we Cultivators will burn all that we have just to give off a single weak flickering spark in the darkness!

No matter how weak each spark is, how short-lived, how small… As long as the sparks flow unabated, then one day one of those sparks will light some tinder, and that tinder shall light some fallen branches, and those branches shall set ablaze each and every last tree of the forest!

In the end, even the smallest sparks will eventually set the shadowy forest ablaze, and illuminate the whole world!”

**Nice Synopsis from /r/Rational** In FMoC, sweeping social change has changed the landscape of the Xianxia world forever. Secret sects have developed from being merely schools of kung fu to being corporation-like entities, with grandmasters and elders becoming equivalent to CEOs and Board Chairmen of modern-day corporations. Sufficiently advanced martial arts is the flavor of the setting; martial arts is interwoven into the entire world.

Schools of fine cuisine teach their chefs methods for cooking their food with magical fire and secret techniques for punching the flavor from one food into another.Universities host martial arts tournaments instead of football games. Scientists debate if the fundamental unit of Chi is a Chi Particle or Chi Wave, and have built Large Essence Colliders to test their theories on the nature of Chi. Magical physics is a study in and of itself!

The military uses high-powered enchanted swords that home in on the spiritual markers of enemy souls, rather than drone strikes, and invests countless crystal credits into researching military applications of magic.And all over the world, everyday practitioners of magic use their abilities to create new technologies, working alongside regular humans. Thanks to the integration of common humanity with the magic of the Cultivators, all sorts of wondrous things have been created, including healing pods, magical prostheses that can even replace the entire body in extreme scenarios, and even transhuman methods of capturing lost souls and bringing them back to life- all things which were once only available to the magic-users, but which have since become available to all, magic users or not. Heck, they even built a magic internet for muggles and wizards alike!

***

**More Links**

* [Table of Contents](https://friendshipispower.wordpress.com/category/forty-millenniums-of-cultivation-chapters/)

* [NovelUpdates](http://www.novelupdates.com/series/forty-millenniums-of-cultivation/)

* [Raw Source](http://read.qidian.com/BookReader/GrhBjciXhoI1.aspx)

* [Previous Thread Search](https://www.reddit.com/r/noveltranslations/search?q=title%3AForty+Millenniums+of+Cultivation+flair%3Acn&restrict_sr=on&sort=new&t=all)

***

Translated by Friendship Is Power

### Comments:

- u/Cakefleet:
  ```
  I can guess what will happen, as this trope is somewhat common. He will quite possibly get an OP artifact or power, as this is how it goes in many other translated Xianxia works. The MC normally finds an OP artifact or the teacher-in-a-ring trope. The teacher-in-a-ring trope means that the teacher will be stuck somewhere and they will need the MC's help to gain a body/get out of spatial ring. In exchange, they help the MC become OP. In this case, he might become rational and decide to help the MC.
  ```

  - u/abcd_z:
    ```
    [Spoiler](#s "Close.  The old dude's spirit tried to possess him, but since MC was already a reincarnation it didn't work, destroying the spirit and leaving MC with his knowledge of cultivation skills and a major boost to his cultivating ability.  Standard Xiania MC, really.")
    ```

- u/None:
  ```
  PSA: There's [a channel for this work on the Discord server](https://discord.gg/pmf4ugk).
  ```

---

