## [HSF] A Topiary, screenplay of Shane Carruth's Unmade Movie

### Post:

Link: https://indiegroundfilms.files.wordpress.com/2014/01/a-topiary-numbered.pdf

For many in this community, I think Shane Carruth needs no introduction - Primer and Upstream Color are both rational scifi stories of the highest caliber in the film medium. 

A Topiary was the original second project Shane Carruth sought funding for after Primer, with an estimated budget of 20 million USD (later revised to 15). Considered too risky by studios, it never saw the light, and perhaps never will. At some point, the script got leaked, offering the fans a glimpse into this unrealized wonder.

I just binge-read the story, it is every bit mesmerizing and mind-blowing as expected. Similar to Primer and Upstream color, one read-through is just the beginning. 

An almost defining characteristic of good writing is "show, don't tell" - Carruth's works take this to the next level. In A Topiary, like primer, there's a logic core: a foreign object/phenomenon exists in the universe, but much of its inner mechanism and purpose started unknown, and almost seemed unknownable.

We follow the main characters probing, experimenting with the "object", making accidental discoveries as well as running into dead ends - a process truly mirrors genuine scientific process and methodologies. This is very similar to Primer, but executed more skillfully; the main cast studying this object is a group of 10 boys (aged 7 to 12).

* Unlike Aaron and Abe in Primer, they do not have the background as engineers, but otherwise every bit rational and curious
* A sense of boyish wonder and joy organically mixed in the "scientific process"
* The social dynamics of the whole journey is fully explored: rivalries formed, information warfare, trades and balances of power
* Surprisingly, all 10 boys have their characters fleshed out. Each pair/group has their own unique dynamics and mini-charater arcs (this alone would be extremely rare in mainstream movies)

I will leave the note of the author on the first page here, as a brief intro:

> NOTE: For a couple reasons this screenplay does not adhere to the one-page/ minute convention. 1. Although most scenes are incredibly brief, there are more than twice as many of them here than an average script resulting in more description and scene headings. 2. Many objects in this story don't have a real-world analogue, again resulting in more description.

> The first act, involving the adults in the early 1980s, is paced somewhere between a traditional narrative and the "previously on" section of a TV show (assume there is a "CUT TO" between every action). It will run at about 30 seconds a page, taking 30 minutes of screen time. The kids' story runs at 40 seconds a page for another 2 hours of screen time.

### Comments:

- u/AStartlingStatement:
  ```
  Ever since it became one hundred percent certain (or as close to it that it doesn't matter) that it's never getting made, I also started recommending to friends that they read it, since the version they see in their head while reading it is the only version they are going to get. 

  It would have been incredible. Ah well, high hopes for *The Modern Ocean* anyway.
  ```

- u/LazarusRises:
  ```
  Just finished it. Took me a while to read, it's pretty long, but holy **shit**. I'm so sad it's on pause--here's hoping he gets the money for it someday. The movie in my mind's eye was breathtaking, I feel like I could see every single detail. WARNING: Spoilers ahead.

  What was the connection between the two parts? Acre and Amanda constructed an image of the kids in the forest, but what was the link between the glints/Apologue/amber liquid and the flowers/Choruses? They didn't seem to be part of the same alien life cycle--maybe the glints were another alien race trying to warn humanity about the Choruses?

  The adult campers weren't supposed to be the group from the first part, were they? I assume they were deaf because of repeated amputation of flower fingers, reinforcing that they weren't as clever (a recurring word/theme) or inventive as the kids. 

  Even if there aren't answers, that was fucking spectacular. I'm firmly convinced he's up there with the best filmmakers of all time.
  ```

- u/TungstenChap:
  ```
  6 years on and I'm still pissed off that this will likely never get made...

  Was not a petition started at some point?
  ```

---

