## Psychologically realistic villains can be evil, so write them that way

### Post:

A common writing mistake that I see amateur authors make (and some more experienced writers as well) is to write their villains as *morally complex,* which usually means "confused good people," before writing them as *evil.* When [I tried to explain this](https://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/9p3oxl/evil_is_realistic/), I don't think most people really got it, and while the essay could have been a lot better, I also think that a lot of people got distracted by the word "evil" in a way that I think is really unhelpful to writing. The problem is that, for most people, "evil" means someone who is incomprehensible and has zero sympathetic qualities. Fire Lord Ozai, who kills a lot of innocent people and tries to kill his own son, is Evil. Azula, who is totally in favor of killing lots of innocent people and tries to kill her brother, is Morally Complex because she has mommy issues and is under a lot of relatable stress by the end of the series.

Azula is literally a murdering psychopath who envisions and wholeheartedly supports a plan to torch the entire Earth Kingdom. But she cries about mommy, so she isn't evil.

I didn't have the motivation to return to this topic to try to clarify things, but I was reminded of it by [this blog post](http://www.overcomingbias.com/2019/04/downfall.html). Robin Hanson discusses how a movie that portrays Hitler as someone who cries and is nice to his coworkers makes critics uncomfortable with the "humanizing" of Hitler, even though the movie in no way disguises that Hitler launches WWII and the Holocaust.

As far as I can tell, the basic issue people have when discussing evil is the idea that *evil implies incomprehensibility.* An evil person's actions and motivations *must* be something that a good person cannot comprehend.

Hanson quotes the New Yorker review, emphasis mine:

> By emphasizing the painfulness of Hitler’s defeat Ganz has certainly carried out the stated ambition … **he has made the dictator into a plausible human being.**

As Hanson observes, "...no remotely realistic depiction of real bad people would satisfy these critics." I mean, do they think that Hitler *wasn't* a plausible human being? Surely they aren't denying that he was literally a human, wasn't he? It's *possible* that he was have been an extremely unusual human, the negative moral equivalent of a [Robert Wadlow](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Robert_Wadlow), but there is approximately zero biographical evidence in favor of this. Hitler seems to have fit well into the normal range of human motivation and behavior by all accounts.

Is plausibility inconsistent with evil? If I can empathize with someone, if I can see the way they act and be like, "Yup, that's how people are," does that mean they aren't evil? If so, then for Hitler to be evil, when he realizes he's going to lose the war he needs to start screaming "MORE BLOOD DEATH HORROR DESPAIR THE SUFFERING OF CHILDREN AND THE THROATING OF SATAN'S COCK." But if he cries and is like, "I thought waging war against all of Europe and killing millions of innocents was going to work out so *well*," he's Morally Complex.

Ozai wants to kill millions Just Because, so he's Evil. Azula wants to kill millions in part because she has daddy issues, so she's Morally Complex.

I think *Downfall* shows just how much we require Evil people to be incomprehensible. Suppose someone offers Hitler some ice cream while he's signing orders to kill innocents. If he's Evil, then we demand that he recoil and shriek, "ICE CREAM BRINGS PLEASURE AND SWEETNESS, I HATE IT, DESTROY ICE CREAM, BURN BURN BURN WORSHIP DESPAIR AND HATRED AND DEATH!" If he's morally complex, then he'll ask for sprinkles on his Cookie Dough ice cream while working out the logistics to kill 6 million people.

On the flip side, we demand the same of our heroes. Of course we know that Abraham Lincoln took some serious poops, just like we know Hitler was a normal guy. And yet somehow Abraham Lincoln seems like less of a Hero for taking occasionally painful shits. [Even though that should make him *more* heroic.](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/krMzmSXgvEdf7iBT6/superhero-bias)

Hitler liked ice cream, and Abraham Lincoln took some nasty 19th century shits. Does anyone disagree with these statements? And yet suddenly it's like Hitler didn't kill millions of people, and Lincoln was sort of a chump....

Words mean whatever you want. I can't *prove* that evil and psychological normality are compatible with each other. I just think it's useful to be able to call mass murders evil even if they're psychologically normal.

So why do we demand that the word evil be restricted to people who would rather rape babies while playing Led Zeppelin records backwards than eat ice cream? Robin Hanson says it's because signaling, because he's Robin Hanson and that's just how he does things. Some of it is the embarrassment of empathizing with those we despise and realizing that we're not so different from them. But I think there's another important reason that often goes overlooked.

Words are a call to action. "There's food over there," is only interesting insofar as it causes people to go look for food over there. If talking never translated into doing anything, there would be no reason not to say things like, "2 + 2 = 3." It's not like it would ever mess up the accounting—we're not *doing* accounting.

As far as I can tell, for most people, calling something evil implies *stupid evil action on the part of the listeners.* Evil things should be met with maximum violence regardless of whether it is good to do so or whether it is effective to do so. If something is evil, you better immediately start acting evil and stupid yourself, or else you're on evil's side.

Take the question of whether Islam is evil. Suppose—and this *isn't* an actual assertion, just *suppose* like it's a hypothetical—that the Islamic faith is really regressive and messed up and incompatible with liberal democratic values in fundamental ways, and it needs to change if there is going to be peace in the world and rights for women and stuff. Is it evil?

As far as I can tell, the way "evil" versus "culture or something, idk" works is this way. If you think Islam is evil, the solution is carpet bombing the Middle East. If you think Islam is morally complex, the solution is education and stuff. Debates about whether Islam is evil are debates about whether we ought to bomb them to pieces. 

This makes sense from an evil-is-inhumanity perspective. If Muslims are inhuman, educating them seems pretty unrealistic. We can't educate grizzly bears into society, just kill them and maybe keep a few in zoos. If Muslims are human, educating them seems pretty realistic. To me, *either way*, the question of the evil of Islam or the evil of Muslims is *not affected*. (and this isn't a take on said question, if you discuss it in the comments then you are stupid.) Of course Osama Bin Laden was human and sympathetic. And of course he was evil.

There's an old Cracked article about how it's uncomfortable to think about Osama bin Laden being a guy who likes volleyball and gets boners likes everyone else. Like, suddenly it makes him a Human Being instead of Pure Evil, and now we shouldn't kill him. Maybe we should even let him win? I mean, once we admit he likes volleyball and gets boners, what's even the difference between him and us? I mean, yeah, the 3,000 dead people and the insane regressive ideology of conquest and submission, but *volleyball* and *boners.*

This is the Christopher Columbus dynamic. Somehow, the idea that he was a great explorer and a seriously talented person whose actions kickstarted the modern age is considered to be incompatible with the idea that he was a huuuuuuuge piece of shit. They're compatible. Columbus was a charming and smart dude, and an enslaving, murdering monster. At the same time. He didn't have to switch modes or anything. He was both, simultaneously, because they're completely compatible.

But that's the issue. If Christopher Columbus was an impressive person who would probably personally charm many of us, then we should celebrate Columbus Day and feel proud of American history. If Christopher Columbus was Evil, then fuck Columbus Day, fuck America, fuck everything. My claim is that this debate makes no fucking sense.

("Hitler deserves to die." "But he likes ice cream." *Huh? What?*)

Of course we need to make a decision about whether to celebrate Columbus Day. I just don't think it makes sense to say either, "Yes because he didn't literally suck Satan's cock all day" or "No because he did in fact suck Satan's cock all day, read a book." It's a weird thing for the debate to turn on.

I think there are evil things in the world. And I hesitate to say so, because I predict, from experience, the reaction will be, "No, let us not do this evil stupid thing you are proposing." (Or even worse: "Yes, let us do this evil stupid thing you are proposing.") And I will want to say, "I'm not saying let's be evil and stupid ourselves! I'm just saying that that thing over there is evil!" But this will fall on deaf ears. I mean, if someone is evil, surely the only logical course of action is to destroy them with maximum violence.

That's the Nazi punching thing today. Should we punch Nazis? Everything seems to turn on *whether they are Nazis* and *therefore pure evil*. Not on whether punching people is okay or effective. But I don't think it matters whether they're evil, I think it matters whether punching people is good and smart.

("Should I invite Jim to the barbecue?" "Well, he's evil." "Oh, so I should kill him and his whole fucking family?" *What the fuck???*)

It's like Sodom and Gomorrah. God didn't have to kill any of them. He could have made them moral people in so many ways. But Abraham doesn't say, "God, what the hell, just make them good people, or give them the nicer bible you're going to write in 3000 years, or do anything but fucking murder them all, what the fuck is wrong with you?" Instead the debate is like this:

God: See those people over there? They're pure evil, so I'm going to kill them all. Even though I have so many better ways to deal with the problem.

Abraham: But *what if they're not evil?*

God: Just to clarify, if they are evil, you think it's totally fine that I'm going to obliterate them.

Abraham: Yes.

God: They're all evil.

Abraham: Holocaust the shit out of them, dude.

Why do we work this way? We really struggle to empathize with evil. We're consistently shocked when power corrupts. Cops, communist dictators, shitty managers. The list goes on for miles. *It keeps catching us by surprise.* Even though we know power corrupts and we know most cops and so on must be psychologically normal people, we keep being like, "But *why* would they *do* that?" Racism is sometimes a substitute for evil in these conversations—Their Motives Are Not As Ours.

But their motives *are* as ours. Power corrupts—

—ah, but power *corrupts.* It changes you. I don't want to lynch a person for failing to step off the sidewalk for me to pass. But put me in a racist Southern society, and suddenly I will.

> [When the revolutionary obtains power](https://www.lesswrong.com/posts/v8rghtzWCziYuMdJ5/why-does-power-corrupt), he will find that it is sweet, and he will try to hold on to it—perhaps still thinking that this is for the good of the tribe.  He will find that it seems right to take many wives (surely he deserves some reward for his labor) and to help his children (who are more deserving of help than others).  But the young revolutionary has no foreknowledge of this in the beginning, when he sets out to overthrow the awful people who currently rule the tribe—evil mutants whose intentions are obviously much less good than his own.

[...]

> Just that thought—not even the intention, not even wondering whether to do it, but just the thought—that I could present only my side of the story and deliberately make the offending reporter look bad, and that no one would call me on it.  Just that thought triggered this huge surge of positive reinforcement.  This tremendous high, comparable to the high of discovery or the high of altruism.

I don't want to hurt people. But when I think about being in a position where I can totally do whatever I want to people, suddenly I kind of do want to hurt people. If they deserve it, I mean. Or if they disrespect me—I mean, I can't take that lying down, can I? Or just if, you know, it just feels like I ought to. Like if they look at me funny, or if they're ugly, or if they annoy me in any way, or just, I don't know, if I just feel like it.

But I don't want to hurt people. 

Just never give me the opportunity to.

So maybe *this* is why we associate evil with psychological abnormality: The necessary condition to psychologically understand evil is to be in a position to do evil. Since most of us aren't, we're baffled by evil even though evil is very normal and a part of all of us.

It's like sex. It's hard to understand why a lot of weird sex acts are sexy unless and until you're doing it, at which point HELL YEAH THIS IS HOT OH YEAH DON'T STOP BABY

And like sexy feelings, once you've wiped off the screen and thrown away the coconut, you no longer remember why you were watching that weird video. It just seems gross and even *boring.* How were you getting off to *that*?

Why do we interpret claims of evil as a call to do evil stupid things?
Maybe calling things evil is exercises the power circuit in the brain, and the power circuit is really evil and loves destroying things. (This isn't how the brain works.) It's no different from asking why saying, "Hey baby, want to come back to my place?" gets people thinking about sex. You haven't *said* anything about sex.  But I mean, you know...what's the *point* unless we....

But what this means is that evil is comprehensible to the evil. That's why you can write your villains as Pure Evil *and* as real, complex people. Azula is a very relatable person until she starts trying to kill people. But to Azula herself, she's still relatable...and in fact, so she is to her close friends as well and to those who sympathize with her actions. And to us the audience, who understand her and enjoy watching her work, even though we disagree with her goals. Those who know her and are in similar positions don't see her change from Person to Murderer, and there isn't a change. A horny person isn't a transformed person, or a less than human person. They're just horny.

So please stop tying yourself into knots trying to write psychologically realistic villains. Evil is psychologically realistic. Genghis Khan, Hitler, and the douchey shift manager at that shitty job you had when you were 19 were all realistic people. Your villain can burn down the village, cackle about how much he loves killing people, and still be a normal, complex, realistic person. Those people existed, and still do in some places, and maybe still will in the future. If you can't write them so that they feel real and relatable to the reader, you just suck as a writer. (Hint: Professor Quirrell, very complex and psychologically fascinating, and had much of the readership rooting for him. Also a mass murderer who *literally can't understand love.*)

If you talk about culture war things in this thread instead of talking about writing psychologically complex and realistic Evil villains, then *you* are Evil.

### Comments:

- u/EliezerYudkowsky:
  ```
  Major food groups of villains:

  \- psychopaths, literally doesn't care about anyone: Hannibal Lector

  \- ingroup caring only, immense horror wreaked on outgroup: Genghis Khan, Adolf Hitler

  \-- closely related: generally goodish person who has a hate-on for a morality-excepted target, and poor deontological guardrails in pursuit of that target

  \- selfish, follows own incentives, inadequate-equilibria villains: concentration camp guard who doesn't enjoy his work

  \- fanatic in the service of an obviously wrong "Good" with no deontological guardrails; reader is not meant to question whether these morals are actually right

  \- misguided person with obvious false beliefs trying to serve an agreeable Good-as-final-goal; reader is not meant to question whether these beliefs are actually right

  \- the opposition has reasonable beliefs in the service of reasonable goals and abides by reasonable deontological guardrails; either this story is being cast as high tragedy, or readers should experience doubt about who's in the right

  \- the opposition is correct and the protagonist is wrong: Amelia Bones / Dumbledore during the Azkaban arc

  \- Good vs. Good is primary focus of story: readers should be arguing years later about which party was actually in the right
  ```

  - u/Robert_Barlow:
    ```
    >- the opposition is correct and the protagonist is wrong: Amelia Bones / Dumbledore during the Azkaban arc

    Can you just paste this at the end of every reddit post from now on? Maybe in a few years people will start realizing you meant that the whole time.
    ```

    - u/Frommerman:
      ```
      I mean, everyone in that arc is wrong. The authorities are trying to keep people in Torture Prison, which is obviously wrong. Harry is breaking a mass-murdering psychopath who tortured his friend's parents into insanity out of the prison which contained her, which is wrong. That Voldemort is wrong goes without question. That whole arc is just a tragedy.
      ```

      - u/icesharkk:
        ```
        after multiple read throughs its still one of my favorites. He's just a kid being manipulated and for all his rationality hes still fallible.
        ```

      - u/SimoneNonvelodico:
        ```
        Reminds me of a similar situation in the Impel Down arc of One Piece, where >!Luffy tries to break out his brother from the tyrannical government's prison, and in doing so frees a lot of political prisoners... but also a lot of murderous scummy pirates who will surely cause a lot of trouble to the world in the following years. Some of which he had spent whole arcs making sure they'd end up IN there in the first place!!<
        ```

  - u/Teulisch:
    ```
    Amoral vs Immoral is an important distinction. also, morality is defined by culture. cultures of cannibals did exist, and for them canibalism was 'good'. this resulted in some unique parasites, so it was a bad choice on their part overall. 

    Sadism is one explination for some evil. the sadit enjoys causing pain, and gravitates to roles where they have power over others. you know, teachers, caregivers, prison guards, and so on. 

    evil can be petty. look at all the stories of petty corruption at schools. and homeowners associations (a true sourcer of petty evil indeed). not murderers or felons, just people making the lives of others into a living hell because they can. 

    oh, and dont forget the appeal to authority villian. they cant be wrong, they go to the right church! this does not need to be misguided, its quite possible they are just sociopaths and know full well what they do.
    ```

  - u/mynewaccount5:
    ```
    How about someone has to do something really bad to prevent something even worse. Unclear if there is a plausible alternative.

    Or would that fall under "Opposition is correct"?
    ```

- u/Geminii27:
  ```
  I did think it was kind of funny when Quirrell was all "Look, I just really like killing stupid people," and coming across as *relatable* more than anything else. Haven't we all, just for a split-second, wanted to erase some idiot from the planet at some point in our lives? Quirrell gets to live out that fantasy, consequence-free.
  ```

  - u/SoylentRox:
    ```
    >Quirrell gets to live out that fantasy, consequence-free.

    Arguably he doesn't?  Magical powers doesn't mean he isn't risking his own survival with each murder.  There were still magical police, albeit corrupt ones, not to mention Dumbledore and other powerful individuals who would levy consequences on a murderer.
    ```

    - u/GeneralExtension:
      ```
      >! But everyone\* he killed brought him one step closer to immortality. \*Every wizard. !<
      ```

      - u/SoylentRox:
        ```
        I read HPMOR...I don't recall that this was the case.
        ```

        - u/Person_756335846:
          ```
          Horcrux ritual 2.0, he made hundreds of the things, every time he murdered someone privately.
          ```

        - u/GeneralExtension:
          ```
          >!How many horcruxes did Voldemort have?!<
          ```

          - u/Lightwavers:
            ```
            He doesn't know. He made hundreds, sending them into the ocean or deep into the Earth and into space.
            ```

            - u/Frommerman:
              ```
              And if you think he never deliberately erased his own memory of the creation of some of them so their recovery became completely inconcievable, you aren't thinking creatively enough.
              ```

              - u/Lightwavers:
                ```
                Well he actually spelled out that he did exactly that in the story, so perhaps you don't need to think all that creatively.
                ```

          - u/Menolith:
            ```
            >!The spoiler tag doesn't work if you put in the spaces.!<
            ```

          - u/HarmlessHealer:
            ```
            He said he lost count iirc.
            ```

    - u/Geminii27:
      ```
      In theory, yes, but in-story he's so many steps ahead of all of those people that they may as well not exist.

      Admittedly, a random wizard who wasn't Quirrell who did this might have to face those consequences. Quirrell's a special case. Which is part of why he gets to kill so *many* people.
      ```

      - u/icesharkk:
        ```
        This always bugged me, when harry takes the five minutes to reevaluate voldemorte's intelligence: He mentions that the base rate of high intelligence of a person picked at random from the populace is very low and that makes it less likely that voldemorte is intelligent. Voldemorte was not randomly picked. you're talking about the base rate of high intelligence in persons who successfully terrorize entire countries and manipulate entire populaces for decades on end. the latter requires the former in all but the most lucky situations
        ```

        - u/Geminii27:
          ```
          True. Wasn't there at least one version of a sequel (can't recall which one off the top of my head) where Voldy had used the Ravenclaw Diadem as a horcrux and that effectively counted as him wearing it, boosting his intelligence and wisdom near-permanently, or something to that effect?
          ```

  - u/capriciousoctopus:
    ```
    I'm not sure it's consequence free. Like sure he could murder and get away with it, but there would be consequences. They could be good or bad consequences. The problem with murder is usually that you can't take it back. In stories, authors who kill their characters/protagonists quickly run into problems. They have to come up with new interesting/likable characters, its much more economical to grow/torture a character without killing them. In real life, killing someone has butterfly effects, which again could be good and bad. There is a reason why its usually a bad idea to touch anything when you have travelled back in time, no one can really predict the outcome of their actions. You steal unicorn blood without killing, you enchant a broom to not work properly, you petrify someone, all of the above can be taken back some of the time. Not all of the time, the effects can sometimes ripple out before the act is reversed, a fear of Basilisks that lasts a lifetime even after unpetrified. Murder just can't be taken back.
    ```

    - u/Geminii27:
      ```
      Maybe that's part of what makes it so satisfying for him. That person is now removed from existence and no-one's going to be bringing them back. Almost anything else Quirrell could do could, theoretically, be reversed or at least partially undone by others. But killing an idiot is not only satisfying now, the world (from his perspective) has been improved *permanently.*
      ```

- u/wordbug:
  ```
  I feel the word Evil was invented as a means to distance ourselves from even trying to understand our enemies. It's a useful deception when you're trying to live with yourself while fighting a war, or when you want to only ever worry about your in-group. I believe in apathy, selfishness, destructivity... but Evil? Characterizing people as Evil is so often an excuse to turn off our moral muscle that I distrust any attempt to do so in real life, and fiction trains us for real life. Nazis are nazis because they characterize jews as Evil, for example, so even characterizing nazis as Evil is dangerous.

  So I'm glad when some storytellers decide that the reader will be able to empathise with the characters that the protagonists find inconvenient: it builds habit.

  There's also the part where a lot of battles in epic storytelling play out like debates, which is a very powerful tool: on top of the often boring question of "will x win?", they're adding another: "should x win?"
  ```

  - u/SimoneNonvelodico:
    ```
    > so even characterizing nazis as Evil is dangerous.

    I think "evil" ends up being such a charged word because it's got some faintly spiritual/religious connotations, it seems to suggest the existence of some independent force of the universe of which these people are tools. But ultimately, you can say "immoral", same thing. The Nazis were immoral, or in short, evil. Sure, by my own measure of morality, but by what other code am I supposed to live or judge people? Even though I can understand the motivations that made them tick (in fact, it's useful to do so), the key point that OP is making is exactly that an action having *reasons* doesn't make it less evil. A paedophile who kidnaps, rapes, and kills a child has logical reasons for all those steps (he has a desire to have sex with children, and doesn't want to get caught so doesn't want any witnesses). He still did something that we can all very much call "evil".
    ```

    - u/wordbug:
      ```
      You're right, I prefer immoral. A lot of my contact with the word "evil" has been via sensationalist media and simplistic stories where the villains only wanted bad things because they were bad (so, sensationalist media), so that colors my preferences.

      I see "evil", I expect simplism. For example:

      Nazism is an ideology, which means that many nazis believe they're doing the right thing. Is being wrong evil?

      Or, if we're only judging results, there's bound to be nazis who make a net positive impact on the world: if 'nazis are evil' and 'doctors who volunteer are good', what does that make a volunteer doctor who only treats white people?

      Nazism is wrong, easily motivated by selfishness, and highly destructive: does that make nazis automatically evil? The Nuremberg trials would have been so easy if it did, except the part where they carried out the sentence on millions.
      ```

- u/timecubefanfiction:
  ```
  To clarify the kind of problem that results from this sort of thinking, you have writers going: 

  villains shouldn't be Evil -> that means I have to come up with Good reasons for the villain to burn down the village and torture the Hero's parents to death -> um -> uh -> okay, it's kind of hard to think of reasons why that would be Good -> uhhhh -> The dragon prince
  ```

  - u/tjhance:
    ```
    I'm unfamiliar with the dragon prince, could you elaborate on what goes wrong there? Where does it end up going after the 'uhhhh' in this chain of events?
    ```

    - u/timecubefanfiction:
      ```
      https://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/9p3oxl/evil_is_realistic/
      ```

      - u/SleepThinker:
        ```
        Have you not watched S2 of Dragon prince? 

        Not that there is really a problem like this in S1.
        ```

        - u/timecubefanfiction:
          ```
          Got excited at episode 4, then the rest of the season gradually regressed. Oh well. Writing cartoons is a lot more complicated than writing books anyway.
          ```

- u/MagicWeasel:
  ```
  It's tricky because there's a risk of going the other way: having someone who literally just wants to kill people For No Reason, and that makes it hard to hang more plot hooks off them.

  Like, when I write villains, I try to think of what their motivations are and run it from that. But I'm not writing "burn down the school and masturbate over the ashes" villains, I'm writing "ruin someone's life to get you one rung higher on the social ladder" villains, so maybe there's a difference? Like, my villains are motivated by "duty" and by "status" respectively, and all their "evil" actions are done in service to them. They don't kick a dog they walk past to demonstrate they're evil, because that doesn't have them fulfill their duty/increase their status. 

  But maybe that means my villains aren't evil, they're just, well, antagonists? 

  What's "good" about writing "evil" characters? Like yeah if you want to write *Silence of the Lambs* then have the person with weird sex stuff around murder, but the average sci fi or fantasy story, do you need evil? Isn't it enough that the King makes the peasants work for 12 hours a day with meagre rations without him having to torture the children Just For Fun?
  ```

  - u/junkie_purist:
    ```
    > It's tricky because there's a risk of going the other way: having someone who literally just wants to kill people For No Reason, and that makes it hard to hang more plot hooks off them.

    Why?  Are you making this conclusion based on the fact that someone who wants to kill people "for no reason" would be an irrational actor, and thus they would have completely unpredictable behavior that wouldn't be compatible with the construction of a rational plot?  Because it's possible to write a villain that rationally pursues an irrational goal.

    For example, take infamous cannibal Issei Sagawa.  Clearly, his desire to feast on human flesh was irrational.  However, his behavior is not "random" or "unpredictable." [CW: cannibalism/violence] >!He didn't go into public, attack strangers, and start gnawing on their faces.  Instead, he found a classmate he selected on the basis that she was beautiful and healthy (characteristics that he felt he lacked and wanted to "consume"), he invited her to his apartment to participate in a reading assignment, and asked her to read several passages into a tape recorder so that she would be distracted/immersed in the assignment and unable to see or resist him at the moment that he shot her in the back of the neck with a rifle.  After consuming part of her body, he attempted to dispose of her remains in a nearby lake, he was caught, but clearly he was taking steps in trying to *not* get caught: he didn't just sling her corpse over his shoulder and waddle down to the lake; he carved up her body so that he could fit her into several suitcases, which would allow him to transport the remains away from his apartment without revealing that he was wheeling around a human corpse.!<  His goal ("eat human flesh") was irrational, but his method for achieving that goal was arguably rational.

    I think that OP's point is that writing a story about a cannibal who kills people because he wants to eat them is not so different from writing a story about a vigilante who kills criminals out of a sense of "justice" in several respects: first, they would still have some set of criteria that they use to select victims.  Secondly, they would still presumably try to formulate and execute their plans to kill people without getting caught.  

    They don't have to be motivated by things like "duty" or "status," presumably the hedonic motivation (the "urge to kill" or "the desire for human flesh" whatever) is all that they need.  I believe OP's point is that we would look at the vigilante and say, "Oh, that's realistic because the vigilante's motivation for killing people is justice, which is at least adjacent to my own value system, they just have a warped sense of justice."  Why can't we also look at the example of someone like Issei Sagawa and say, "Oh, that's realistic because (apart from the fact that Issei Sagawa is a real person who did those things in real life) his motivation for killing people is a hedonic urge, and I know what it's like to succumb to hedonic impulses that make me want to engage in unhealthy behaviors, it's just that his 'unhealthy hedonic impulses' made him hunger for human flesh instead of chocolate, and also he lacked a self-imposed or externally-imposed morality to keep him from murdering people.  But, uh, if a person has hedonic impulses that drive them to kill people, and they lack a sense of morality that would prevent them from killing people, the word 'evil' could probably describe that person.  In fact, one could argue that 'lack of morality' is the definition of the word evil, and 'killing people in order to achieve a selfish end' is also probably encompassed by the word 'evil.'"

    To revisit your premise:

    >It's tricky because there's a risk of going the other way: having someone who literally just wants to kill people For No Reason, and that makes it hard to hang more plot hooks off them.

    So like, we would look at the example of the Issei Sagawa story and say, "Oh, that poor woman, she died For No Reason."  But in the literal sense, the reason for her death was that he wanted to consume human flesh, and she was a readily-available option for him to achieve that end.  From a narrative standpoint, you can still have a villain who has things like "motivations" that are central to constructing a functional character and a functional plot, while also making those "motivations" alien to us.

    >They don't kick a dog they walk past to demonstrate they're evil, because that doesn't have them fulfill their duty/increase their status.  But maybe that means my villains aren't evil, they're just, well, antagonists?

    I dunno, if someone killed millions of people to fulfill their duty and increase their status, I'd still call them evil, even if they never went out of their way to kick a dog.  I doubt Hitler and Stalin kicked dogs on the regular, but it would be pretty difficult to define evil in a way that doesn't include Hitler and Stalin.  (I say this fully aware that there are people who have definitions of 'evil' that do not include Hitler and Stalin, and I will stand by the position that these definitions of 'evil' are not useful for anything.) Having a motivation/goal for something doesn't magically cause your actions to be "merely antagonistic, not evil."

    >Isn't it enough that the King makes the peasants work for 12 hours a day with meagre rations without him having to torture the children Just For Fun?

    Again, I think OP's point is that if someone was going to write a story about a King who makes peasants work for 12 hours a day with meager rations, in attempt to make the story more "realistic" they might talk about how the king really believes he's doing this for the greater good, or because he had a tragic backstory, when in fact he could just be doing this because he wants to accumulate more wealth for himself.  Hey, working peasants to the bone just so you can have a marginally more pleasurably existence sounds pretty evil to me!  In fact, I think that the king making peasants work for 12 hours a day with meager rations is *exactly* what OP is talking about when he says "just let villains be evil."

    I don't think OP's point in saying "Just let characters be evil" was to say "make your villains kick dogs more," I think it was more, "Just be content to say 'they steal because they're selfish' instead of trying to tell us that they actually have a more complex motivation for what they're doing (e.g. "a misguided sense of justice") or pretending that they only do these things because they were abused as a child."
    ```

    - u/Argenteus_CG:
      ```
      I'm not really sure there's such a thing as an "irrational goal". You can pursue a goal in a way that's irrational, but what exactly makes one goal more rational than another? Basing it off of what the average person desires is obviously nonsense; wanting to be happy wouldn't suddenly be an irrational goal if 99% of humanity (for whatever reason) wanted to pointlessly suffer.
      ```

    - u/MagicWeasel:
      ```
      thank you so much for writing that out for me, because I didn't get that from the OP at all, but the way you've said it is much better.

      I would say, though, that with the Sagewa example, "he hungers for human flesh as a terminal value" would be *harder* to hang plot hooks off than "he hungers for human flesh because he believes if he eats people he gains their beauty" (I'm familiar with the Sagewa story and I believe his motivation for eating was not for wanting to taste it but more along those lines? like he coveted his victim's beauty in some way? or he thought no woman would ever sleep with him so eating them was the best he could do? this is purely memory though, but there *was* something more than "i wonder what long pig tastes like" going on for him). 

      Let's assume it's the "beauty" thing though. As an author, the "beauty" line gives you some interesting places to go: it tells you more about him. Not only does he want to eat beautiful people, but he thinks beauty is important. Does he put a lot of effort into his appearance to be beautiful? Does he not put any effort because the only way to be beautiful is to eat beautiful people? Does he like art? Etc. 

      IDK, for me it just seems... more interesting? Gives you more to work with? More flavour (ha)? If you don't just "stop" at "the evil thing is their terminal value". For many of the "worst monsters" it was, though, but I'm not sure stories about "those monsters" are what I most care to read or write?
      ```

    - u/timecubefanfiction:
      ```
      > I don't think OP's point in saying "Just let characters be evil" was to say "make your villains kick dogs more," I think it was more, "Just be content to say 'they steal because they're selfish' instead of trying to tell us that they actually have a more complex motivation for what they're doing (e.g. "a misguided sense of justice") or pretending that they only do these things because they were abused as a child."

      Yeah.

      Might write some stuff later about portraying cartoonishly evil villains as complex and evolving characters. I think Zhao from *Avatar: The Last Airbender* is a great example of doing this right.
      ```

  - u/GeneralExtension:
    ```
    >But maybe that means my villains aren't evil, they're just, well, antagonists?

    I haven't seen your villains, but being evil doesn't require being absolutely evil. If it is wrong to kick a dog, then kicking a dog is evil. Not doing other evil things doesn't change the nature of that act - it's still evil.
    ```

    - u/MagicWeasel:
      ```
      Doesn't that dilute the word "evil"? 

      If I gossip about a coworker so that way she's passed over for a promotion, does that make me evil? 

      If the point of this essay is "it's OK to write people who are just evil", then if evil is literally anything that isn't Right, then, well, that's not very satisfying is it? 

      Like is what I'm meant to get out of this essay "you don't need to tell people Hitler liked dogs in order to write him as a compelling villain", and yeah, fair enough, but the other extreme is having Hitler be like "I want to set up concentration camps and kill and torture people just for funsies!" and then that doesn't give you things to help you write the rest of the story (he likes concentration camps and killing people... but how does that relate to his military strategy? IDK), whereas if you give him a motivation - say it's "take over Europe and destroy weaker races" - then you can say "well he thinks $COUNTRY is full of weaker races, so that would make sense as his first target" OR "well $COUNTRY is nearby, has a weak army and lots of resources, so that makes sense as his first target". 

      I don't know if that articulates my point? Like, writing stories with villains that act rationally / consistently is hard, and giving them motivations that aren't completely inscrutable helps make them have a "consistent" set of actions, and gives you more story ideas later?
      ```

      - u/GeneralExtension:
        ```
        >Doesn't that dilute the word "evil"?

        My point was that there are degrees of evil. (This essay uses "evil" in place of "absolute" or "colossal evil".) To put it roughly - to make one person's life worse is bad. To do so to a greater degree is worse. To do the same thing to 2 people instead of 1 is twice as bad. To a 100 people instead of 2 is 50 times as bad, etc. (The opposite may be said of good as well.)

        >If I gossip about a coworker so that way she's passed over for a promotion, does that make me evil?

        It doesn't sound like it makes you good.
        ```

  - u/get_sirius:
    ```
    I think that Burton's Joker and Nolan's Joker are good contrasts here. Both are supposed to be "evil" and "crazy" but Burton's Joker doesn't operate on any internal logic. He just does random evil crazy stuff. Meanwhile, Nolan's Joker is still an unsympathetic force of nature, but he operates (however imperfectly) under a set of principles. That makes it easier to understand his goals, even if I don't sympathize with him.

    Contrast that with the new Joker trailer where we learn that he...loves his mom? This is obviously designed to make him seem human and relatable. In a way that the other Jokers are not.
    ```

    - u/SimoneNonvelodico:
      ```
      > Burton's Joker doesn't operate on any internal logic. He just does random evil crazy stuff

      It's the Joker, though. Not having any internal logic *is* his logic. His whole shtick is complete nihilism: the world doesn't make sense, it is a cruel and random place that will strike you with suffering without rhyme or reason. Joker embraces this and takes it a step further, by trying to turn it into a joke. A dark, deadly, killing joke (see what I did there?), but a joke nevertheless.
      ```

- u/None:
  ```
  One "problem" for writers is that, once you've decided to make your villain not-incomprehensibly-evil, it's actually really easy to come up with morally good reasons for what they're doing; and having morally complex villains is much more interesting than having relatable but morally-incomplex ones.

  Take HPMOR, for instance. Yudkowsky *could* have just made him a Voldemort that likes puppies, aka relatable but evil, but it's not such a huge jump to say "Nuclear bombs are a huge threat, so Voldemort wants to stop that" (so much so that Rowling herself has now done this with Grindelwald, in Fantastic Beasts). He's correct, even if not all his methods are, and even if he's only worried for his own safety and the safety of the things he enjoys doing; and this is more interesting than if he just liked puppies but was otherwise Voldemort.
  ```

- u/vimefer:
  ```
  I wish there were more Occasional Villains. That is, ordinary people who briefly fall into the Joker's pit, a.k.a the One Bad Day that pushes you over the edge so you hit your wife or your kid, or you ram that idiot's car in a rage, etc.

  One bad impulsive decision, then the character tries to cover it up because they're still in denial over it, then the discrepancies or lies start spilling over, leading to more bad decisions, etc. Or possibly, characters that are only evil once because the circumstances just push them there for a brief moment.
  ```

  - u/MagicWeasel:
    ```
    I just watched the Black Mirror S4 episode *Crocodile* and that fits your description pretty well, though it probably unravels too far (but it's Black Mirror so what do you expect?).
    ```

  - u/SimoneNonvelodico:
    ```
    That's basically the take on Voldemort we get in Seventh Horcrux, if I don't remember badly. One guy who made one very bad decision once and it all sorta went downhill from there (it's played for laughs).
    ```

- u/Mekanimal:
  ```
  Not an author but this was a pleasure to read, I found it informative and engaging. 

  Do you write any articles or blogs?
  ```

- u/belac39:
  ```
  Don't have many comments, but [this is a really good video talking about the trope of 'pure evil' villains.](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1-XprjlATEo)
  ```

- u/wordbug:
  ```
  TL;DR?
  ```

  - u/timecubefanfiction:
    ```
    I see a lot of amateur writers writing weak villains out of a misguided belief that they must avoid having evil villains because evil villains are unrealistic.

    Efforts to convince people that evil people are realistic run into the problem that realistic people are not evil—i.e., by the time people understand why someone has done something, they no longer feel like the person is evil.

    This would be fine, but we talk about villains in terms of good and evil, so I have seen a wave of new writers who feel like they must avoid writing an entire class of villain who are perfectly fine to write and good for many stories.

    Why do we have such narrow and restrictive standards for what constitutes evil? Even *literally Hitler* is not considered evil if we acknowledge that he liked dogs and was nice to secretaries.

    There are two reasons.

    One reason is that we believe that evil should be responded to in evil and stupid ways, and we do not want to be evil and stupid, so we do not call things evil if we can avoid it.

    The other reason is that we genuinely have trouble empathizing with evil people because the evil within us all does not manifest until we are in position to do evil.

    But if we just consider evil to mean "really bad guy," then it should be pretty clear that you can write realistic, complex Evil bad guys.
    ```

- u/vallar57:
  ```
  Our reading experiences seem to be quite different. I don't recall many cases, be it among amateur authors or not, who ruin a villain by attemting to make them "morally complex" and not making them villainous enough for the job as a result. For me, it's usually them simply being too dumb to live that ruins it.
  ```

- u/Veedrac:
  ```
  > Robin Hanson says it's because signaling, because he's Robin Hanson and that's just how he does things. Some of it is the embarrassment of empathizing with those we despise and realizing that we're not so different from them. But I think there's another important reason that often goes overlooked.

  It seems that your succeeding commentary is just a particular subset of signalling.
  ```

- u/None:
  ```
  [deleted]
  ```

- u/eternal-potato:
  ```
  I just want to point out that "evil" is simply a label for misalignment or value systems past certain degree. Whenever one encounters rhetoric or behavior that one precieves as having a sufficiently negative utility (according to one's value system), one calls it "evil". 

  This is why "true evil" must be incopmrehensible, since it is based on completely alien values, and why when we (as readers) are shown the villain having a "human" relatable side, find it hard to consider them "truly evil", as we were just demonstrated that, fundamentally, their value system is quite close to ours and that whatever makes them a villain of the story in the first place is comparatively minor.
  ```

- u/nytelios:
  ```
  Might be a confounding bias of author subgroups versus the population at large (people just love labeling black and white, good and evil). (Good) authors naturally probe deep into the heads of their characters; one concept from r!Animorphs that stuck with me is that once you truly, absolutely understand another person, you can *be them*. And they say that nobody thinks of themself as evil. It's easy to write incomprehensible or obvious evil, but hard to label the villain as "evil" once there's *anything at all* to sympathize at. 

  Another factor might be the appeal of redemption to authors. Evil is so final and passé, whereas morally complex, redeemable evil is an audience favorite.

  P.S. OP is like 70% rant...c'mon.
  ```

- u/RynnisOne:
  ```
  I think one of the biggest problems you will have is that you have to **define** evil in a meaningful fashion, while also convincing others to use your definition of 'evil'.

  The problem with this, at least in English, is that the word 'evil' has as many connotations, definitions, and interpretations as the word 'love'.  

  This is the foundation of your problem, of which there are numerous tiers built atop it that have to be agreed upon.  Subjective evil VS objective evil (ie: Some things are evil differing on viewpoint or culture, while other things should be considered universally evil), selfishness VS selflessness, power and sacrifice.  

  I think your primary problem is a category error where you declare that you have a definition of evil, and a majority of other people have a different *single* definition.  In reality, almost *everyone has a different definition*. 

  ---

  Also, it would help greatly if you *paid attention to the source material*.  Fire Lord Ozai isn't just randomly crazy and murderous.  He has events in his past which shaped him and his philosophy, and he's operating under a really big sunken cost fallacy (thanks to the actions of his ancestors) to continue finishing the family's work despite all the destruction it's caused and will cause in the future.  He's not murdering people for the lulz like the Joker, he's doing it as a means to an end--make the entire world as prosperous and quick to advance as the Fire Nation, *exactly* as his ancestor wanted to do a century ago.  There was even an entire episode based around this, where we see his motivations, those of his ancestors, and exactly how things got so screwed up.

  In addition, your interpretation of Sodom and Gomorrah is equally simplistic.  Sure, God **could** have decided to just brainwash them all and magically turn them into good people (which, if you're on Rational, you should immediately have a gut-clenching reaction to the functional destruction of their 'self' that this entails).  Or maybe he could have turned them into rabbits or something silly.  But that's just *you* coming up with the ideas for someone else's story, completely ignoring everything else.

  The way the story was actually written, God said he was going to destroy the towns because their people were evil both in deed and in the oppression of other good people.  Abraham argues with God, saying that it's not right to kill the good people with the bad, and starts by getting God to agree that killing 50 good people in the process is not the right thing to do.  After a bit of haggling, Abraham gets God to agree that killing even 5 good people in the process is bad.  Abraham seems content at this.

  Of course, in true rational fashion, having a human try to outwit a much more powerful and knowledgeable being doesn't end how the human expects.  And thus it's no surprise when God sends a couple messengers (angels) to just go get the small group of good people, lead them out, **then** level the cities.  And in the process, we see what kind of person Lot is, and we see what kind of people live in those cities, and we realize that, hey, maybe places where its socially acceptable for citizens to form mobs and sexually assault visiting foreigners *probably* aren't the kind of cultures you want enforcing their subjective moral frameworks.

  ---

  Now, for some scraps that require individual attention:

  > But when I think about being in a position where I can totally do whatever I want to people, suddenly I kind of do want to hurt people.

    That's your lizard hindbrain talking, running on primitive instinct and the use of said power.  Higher-order evil, the non-primitive kind that uses the big wrinkly parts of the cerebrum, that one comes up with *ideas* on how to get more power or to force others to abide by your whims.  

    Sure, hurting individual people is great on the short term, but wouldn't you rather simply take all those stupid people or the ones who oppose you and move them somewhere else?  If you never have to encounter them again, never have to have those spikes of hatred or wanting them dead, isn't that better for everyone?  And, you know, if you get your underlings to run the program for you so you don't have to waste time on it, isn't that even better?  They can do all the work, and you can go through life never needing to feel those primitive urges, because the people who support you, they are helping you with this problem.  You have such good people!  Finally, what happens if your underlings instead follow *their* primitive urges, and decide that its much more effective to just eliminate those people, perhaps even use a little bit of their thinking forebrains and point out how that keeping 'those' people alive requires you to spend more time and resources on them, so wouldn't disposing of them be a good idea?  You're not just helping you or your nation, but the entire world!  You have a solution for those people you don't like, and it's great for everyone!

    You may call it a slippery slope if you wish, but it's not *that* difficult to go from spiteful little man with some power to Hitler.  Just a bit of rationalizing and a *whole lot* of power.  The problem is that most people don't want to *admit* that, because they'd prefer to Other-ize the Evil in order to protect themselves from the realization that *they might do the same thing, if given the chance*.  Because evil is a part of them, too.  This is the thing that most people don't want to admit, because their pride gets in the way.  How *dare* you say that they are capable of such?  Don't you know they'd *never* do such a thing?   Heh.

  > The necessary condition to psychologically understand evil is to be in a position to do evil.

  Nonsense.  A monk or a philosopher or a writer can come to a psychological understanding of evil *just fine*, even while being separated from others or dealing in a strictly hypothetical, non-physical framework.  This foundation is built on sand.

  > It's hard to understand why a lot of weird sex acts are sexy unless and until you're doing it, at which point 

    At which point you might just be bored and confirm what you already knew--that stuff isn't for you.  Those 'weird' things, which are called *kinks*, don't apply to everyone.  It's worthwhile voyage of discovery to find what you like, though.

  > It just seems gross and even boring. How were you getting off to that?

    That's because you've "released the pressure", so to speak, and your body is less interested and thus your mind follows.

  > So please stop tying yourself into knots trying to write psychologically realistic villains. Evil is psychologically realistic.

    I *think* you might want to rephrase that.

  Finally...
  > If you talk about culture war things in this thread instead of talking about writing psychologically complex and realistic Evil villains, then you are Evil.

    Considering your references to 'punching Nazis', this carries so much hypocrisy that it hurts.  I'll assume you're trying to be humorous when you imply that anyone who doesn't do what you want is somehow evil. ;)
  ```

---

