## Question about the end of Mother of Learning(SPOILERS)

### Post:

Mother of learning is a *fantastic* web serial about a young man studying to become a wizard who gets stuck in a month-long groundhog day esque time loop. It just completed today, so it is no longer a work in progress. It is definitely worth a read if you like characters who slowly progress from average to amazing in their skills. This question contains SPOILERS for the ending, so go read it first. You have been warned.

>!So, what exactly happened? I'll describe my understanding and you can correct me if I am wrong. I have been reading along with the updates but that makes it hard to remember what was revealed earlier.!<

>!So, the Ibasans(or whatever segment of them follows Quatach-Ichl) are plotting revenge as well as a massive land grab against Altazia. Their plan to accomplish this is to release Panaxeth and let him ravage the continent so that they can come in and conquer what's left after the angels manage to bind him again. To do this they co-opt the help of the Cult of the Dragon Below, who foolishly believe they can control the primordial, and launch an invasion against Cyoria to distract Eldemarian forces while the cult completes the summoning ritual, taking advantage of the planar alignment to make it work.!<

>!The angels get wind of this plan and decide to hire Zach to stop the invasion, with the help of the time loop. They put the contract in his mind to make him keep the time loop secret and be true to his word in trying to stop the invasion, and then send him into the time loop, which draws on Panaxeth's power, and can only be activated because of the nearing planar alignment. However, since the time loop is activated a month before the alignment to give Zach time to enact the plan he comes up with to stop the invasion, it does not have energy for as many cycles as intended.!<

>!During the course of his looping, Zach befriends several people and they convince him to make them temporary loopers using the crown, and Jornak is among this group. Jornak doesn't want to lose his progress at the end of the 6 restarts, though, so he gets in contact with Quatach-Ichl and somehow convinces him to use some sort of spell to make him a permanent looper. He then wipes Zach's memory of the beginning of the loop, among other things, leaving him somewhat harmless.!<

>!Jornak then uses his time looping abilities to help the invasion, until Zorian becomes a looper from Quatach-Ichl's soul meld. When Jornak realizes that there is another time traveler, he flips and leaves the loop, trapping Zach and Zorian inside due to it operating outside of normal behavior. Until they get the Key and unbar the gate, which causes Panaxeth to come out and bargain with Silverlake to join his side. He then blocks everybody from leaving(except Zach because he can't block him), but with a lot of work and bloodshed, Zorian's soul manages to leave too.!<

>!Once outside, after a long fight and some angelic intervention, Zach and Zorian defeat the invaders, stop the releasing of Panaxeth, and foil Jornak's evil plans. Zorian stops Zach from dying even though he didn't keep the time loop secret from everybody like the time loop said by tricking him into thinking he did.!<

>!I have several questions about this:!<

>!Why didn't the angels simply come in and stop the plan themselves? Or at least alert the authorities so that they would know to halt the releasing ritual, even if they couldn't fight against the invasion themselves? In fact, they did fight in the invasion themselves, so why didn't they start helping before the invasion in other ways than simply sending Zach into the loop?!<

>!How did Zach get into the time loop without the Key, which was scattered all across the world? And if he was the one who entered the loop, why wouldn't he be right next to the gate at the start of each loop?!<

>!How did Jornak manage to convince Quatach-Ichl to help him by making his marker permanent? And how did Quatach-Ichl accomplish this?!<

>!Why didn't Jornak soulkill or mindrape Zach out of the picture as soon as he got enough power over him to wipe his memories? After all, even if Zach was not aware of the true nature of the time loop, he is still an extremely powerful wizard who knows about the invasion, opposes it, and has access to the time loop.!<

>!Why did Jornak end up contracted with Panaxeth? If the gate thought he was Controller, and didn't expect anything was wrong yet, then wouldn't it just let him pass through like it did Zach at the end? Even if Jornak wanted to release Panaxeth, surely he'd rather not be under a death contract?!<

>!Why didn't the angels make sure in the contract that Zach couldn't tell anyone about the time loop after his mission of averting the invasion was over? Did they just intend for him to die on the mission? If so why didn't they smite him or something once it was over?!<

### Comments:

- u/FairEmpty:
  ```
  1) That's directly addressed: in Chapter 96
  > “We went through a great deal of effort to mask our involvement,” the angel said. “Our current interference… is already overstepping certain boundaries that we would rather not cross. It would have been best for everyone if nobody had realized our involvement.”

  and then later in the same chapter:

  > “Why not just inform the Triumvirate Church and let them handle it?” Zorian asked.

  > “Strange as this may sound to you, that would have been far worse than what we ended up doing,” the angel responded. “We are not supposed to meddle in mortal conflicts.”

  Basically, the angels abide by restrictions set by the gods before the silence, and generally they have to try to avoid messing with mortals too much.

  2) The key isn't actually necessary to enter the time loop, I don't think. From Chapter 55:

  > “The Controller is marked by the Key, by the Maker, or by its agents,” the Guardian said.

  So Zach was almost certainly given the controller marker by the angels and then that was what allowed him to enter the Gate. As for the second part of the question, it sounds like the Gate was activated by the angels instead of Zach himself, and the Gate is simply capable of drawing in the Controller's soul (identified by the marker) regardless of distance. Because Zach was asleep in his home when the Gate was activated, that's where he started the loop.

  3) From Chapter 105:

  > Panaxeth was the one who supplied him with a method of transforming his temporary marker into a permanent one, but never in a million years would have Jornak been able to actually use the method himself. No, he had to beg Quatach-Ichl for assistance to help him perform the task.

  > However, that didn’t mean he was willing to help Jornak without any assurances. He forced Jornak to accept something called a ’soul seed’ – a small fragment of Quatach-Ichl’s soul, somehow processed to prevent degradation and imbued with some measure of self-awareness and memory – and bound said soul fragment to Jornak’s soul, with instructions to return to the original Quatach-Ichl when Jornak successfully came back to the real world.

  So that was how he convinced Quatach-Ichl, besides the obvious "I'll make sure your invasion succeeds" spiel. And it's likely Quatach-Ichl, with Panaxeth's instructions, used his methods of manipulating divine energies to modify the marker- it's discussed in Chapter 87:

  > I suspect divine energies are involved with the marker somehow, and that the reason Red Robe had been able to jailbreak it is because he had Quatach-Ichl’s help. His method of perceiving and possibly modifying divine energies may have allowed him to tamper with the marker in ways that are impossible to us… in which case our efforts to understand and modify the marker are doomed to fail right from the very start.

  and Chapter 89:

  > They found out that, yes, the markers really did contain components made out of divine energies… and they also found a way to deal with that. Through several ruinously expensive deals with Quatach-Ichl and innumerable destroyed divine artifacts, they managed to create methods to detect and crudely manipulate strands of divine energy inside their markers.

  So the procedure came from Panaxeth and Quatach-Ichl just had the skills to follow it.

  4) He couldn't. Soulkilling a Controller is undefined behaviour for the time loop, and I doubt it would work given how many safeguards there are in place for the Controller's safety. Likewise, the contingencies also made mindraping Zach sufficiently difficult, via Chapter 63:

  > This information helped answer a few questions that Zorian had been wondering about for quite some time. Such as why Red Robe had done such relatively minor damage to Zach’s memories – he probably couldn’t have done more than he did. In fact, the real surprise was that he had managed to do as much as he had without triggering the restart. If Zorian was reading his own defective marker correctly, the contingency in question was quite trigger happy – whoever made it was a big believer in the ‘better safe than sorry’ school of philosophy when it came to the safety of the Controller. Red Robe must have spent multiple restarts figuring out a way to get past it to the extent that he did.

  On top of that, I don't imagine Jornak really saw him as that much of a threat after he managed to wipe his memories. After all, if Zorian hadn't showed up, the chances of Zach managing to stop the invasion and make it out of the loop were almost nonexistent. And Zorian only got into the loop via an insanely lucky roll of the dice.

  5) It's for much the same reasons that Zorian had to break out of the loop- regardless of whether or not they've tricked the Guardian into recognising them as Controllers, their bodies would already have souls in them when they tried to leave the loop, and the the Guardian would almost certainly notice something was wrong at that point. From Chapter 55:

  > “So the Controller has their original soul drawn into the time loop when it is first made,” Zorian said. “They aren’t a copy, so there is no problem with them leaving. But everyone else would have to kill someone to get out, and that’s unacceptable. Is that correct?”
  > 
  > “Yes,” the Guardian agreed.
  > 
  > “But you could do that?” Zach suddenly spoke up. “If one of the copies wanted to leave this place, you could switch their soul with that of the original?”
  >
  > “Theoretically,” the Guardian admitted, “but that goes against what I was made to do. I am the Guardian of the Threshold. One of the main tasks the Maker gave me was to ensure things inside the time loop could not menace the source of the template. If a diverged copy tried to kill the original by switching their souls with it, I would do my best to stop them.”

  6) That's a plot point purposely left open, I think. Perhaps the angels never intended to kill Zach after all, or perhaps the situation changed and their angelic restrictions wouldn't allow them to interfere more. My personal theory was it was intended as a temporary measure- it stops Zach from causing trouble until they can figure out what they want to do with him at the end of the month. He's canonically a pretty decent guy and isn't going to try to take over the world or anything, so they let him live- but had he intended to start causing serious trouble using skills gained with the help of the angels, I imagine that would've run afoul of the whole “We are not supposed to meddle in mortal conflicts” bit and they would've had to kill him.
  ```

  - u/Dragonheart91:
    ```
    Thanks for the answers and citing sources. I just finished a fresh read so I can confirm also that everything you said is accurate but I would have been too lazy to cite chapters.

    I had a similar question to OP that I’m relatively certain isn’t answered: How did Zach make temporary loopers in the first place? Only the Crown can do that and I have no idea how Zach got it without Zorian’s help the first time.
    ```

    - u/FairEmpty:
      ```
      Yeah, that's not directly answered, but my guess would be that they just attacked Quatach-Ichl during the invasion, knocked his crown off and ran away with it or forced QI to teleport out, and then quickly applied the marker to as many people as possible before QI could take it back. A big part of the problem with fighting Quatach-Ichl is his mobility- Zach said as much in Chapter 97:
      >He doesn’t have the huge variety of spells that Quatach-Ichl does, his body is too large to teleport around easily, and if you kill his body, he will actually die. The old bag of bones is still the toughest opponent I ever faced. 

      And it's also pretty obvious from a reading of Chapter 60. They manage to force Quatach-Ichl to retreat relatively easily, but a proper victory where he's unable to drop in and attempt to kill them soon after is far out of reach. We also know Zach is capable of relieving the lich of his crown in combat even before working with Zorian, from Chapter 26:

      > Zach actually managed to blow his shiny armor to bits with some kind of black bolts and even knocked the thing’s crown off its skull, but nothing ever made a mark on the bones.

      Such a strategy is unreliable. It's also entirely unsuited for Zach and Zorian's purposes later in the story, for two reasons: first, they need to have the crown a fair bit before the invasion, as they need to connect the Key to the Gate to use it, and the time magic facility the Gate is in is well secured and presumably won't let two "government inspectors" waltz in and play with the big divine artifact while the city is being invaded. Second, they wanted to pull a small army of temporary loopers in, rather than just a handful of Zach's buddies- they'd have to stave off Quatach-Ichl for a lot longer in order to apply the temporary markers. Then, if they couldn't get to someone in time, they'd have to mark them next iteration while still being beholden to the six-month deadline of the initial loopers, which would be devastating considering they really only have one shot at it. And they knew they'd probably need to get enough practice fighting QI to win a real victory anyways, so there's not much point in pulling temporary loopers via a hail mary-esque gambit like that.

      But Jornak's group had none of these problems, and contained several powerful mages. They also had nothing to lose if the effort failed, and were pretty desperate. So I think they just went for it and got a little bit lucky.
      ```

      - u/AKAAkira:
        ```
        My personal theory was that at some point, Zach was actually able to take QI on himself and win. The reason being that it's highly unlikely that he'd be able to know about the temporary-looper creation aspect of the crown unless he actually managed to take it to the Guardian of the Threshold himself in one of the previous loops (or experimented with it for a while).

        This does bring into question why Zach didn't just leave the loop at that point, though. So I could be way off.
        ```

        - u/sephirothrr:
          ```
          just beating QI may not have necessarily been enough to stop the invasion
          ```

- u/Tenoke:
  ```
  The questions have been answered, but I want to mention that your summary of the story was quite good. If I forget details of it in a few years, I'll go back to this to remind myself.
  ```

  - u/zaxqs:
    ```
    Thanks!
    ```

- u/EdLincoln6:
  ```
  I'll actually quibble.  I don't believe the Ibasans ever intended to invade the continent.  The goal was to injure Eldemar badly so they ended up losing the coming war.  They wanted the coming war for the continent to leave the continent weakened and someone less hostile to the Ibasans in charge.   I believe Quatach-Ichl  said something to that effect.

  This next is just my theory, but I suspect Zach was always supposed to die.  I think the angels figured Quatach-Ichl would always figure out what happened.  Zach's death left fewer traces of the angel's meddling.  I suspect a particularly naïve and idealistic kid was selected specifically because he wouldn't look at the terms too closely.  Otherwise Zach just didn't make sense...why not choose an adult with proven abilities like Alaric or Xvim?  Negotiating a contract with a sleeping minor who had no adult parental figures he trusted suggests they didn't think the deal would hold up to scrutiny.  Zach himself suspected he would never survive the Time Loop.  That was why he took girlfriends in the Time Loop and tried to tell people about it...because he was lonely  thought he had to get all his living done before the Loop ended.  This of course was where things went off the rails, because Jornack wasn't content to be snuffed out.

  As far as why the Angels didn't intervene more directly...I will add there were some indications that if the Ibasan plan was thwarted too early the Ibasans adjusted.  That happened in the loop.  And there was the threat of the Wraith Bombs.
  ```

- u/hyphenomicon:
  ```
  I have wondered, a little, if Zach was the champion of the angels while Zorian was the champion of the gods. We see a lot of reasoning from Zorian, at the beginning of the loop, about how unlikely it was that someone with Zach's advantages would just so happen to become ensnared in the time loop - so, Zorian reasons, Zach must have been placed there on purpose. But Zorian's own advantages are tremendous. He's incredibly driven (to make the most of his time), a natural mind mage (to find information as quickly as possible and engage in asymmetric combat), and just so happens to have a personal connection to an archaeological adventure a continent away that was critical to his success. Within universe, the gods are supposedly withdrawn from the land, and I'm sure that's mostly true. But it's tempting to wonder if Zorian is secretly some kind of cosmic champion, making the most out of whatever very small degree of direct divine influence remains. The initial improbability of the soul-merge is difficult to explain without this, except by recourse to the anthropic principle.
  ```

  - u/zaxqs:
    ```
    There was divine intervention: the author wanted Zorian to be competent because it would make for an interesting story.
    ```

---

