## [BST] I'm working on an Avatar: The Last Airbender rational fic and am having trouble making some calls.

### Post:

(Long post, sorry.  You can probably skip most of it)  Hey everyone.  I've been working on 'Avatar: The Last Rationalist' for a few months now, but I'm having some trouble making a few decisions about the world.  You see, one of the central tenements of the original series is that the world is big and complex, so much so that even the wisest among us can't find *the* right answer, and as a result any problem has multiple valid solutions.  It is also largely about the hero learning lessons from others and through experience, and discerning how to behave by thinking on those lessons.  These are both aspects that I want to bring through into my work, but I want to think about the ideal way to carry those themes across into rationality.

**Backround**

(you can skip this part if you've watched the series)

'A:TLA' (the original) takes place in a world where some humans have the ability to 'bend' the four classical elements through the use of martial arts.  Their civilization is divided along those lines into four nations, each associated with one element.  (Here's a [map](http://img1.wikia.nocookie.net/__cb20120307184405/avatar/images/thumb/5/5a/Map_of_the_Avatar_World.jpg/660px-Map_of_the_Avatar_World.jpg))

The Earth Kingdom is a large federation of smaller city states and provinces under the great city of Ba Sing Se, which is ruled by the Earth King.  It occupies most of the largest continent of the planet.  As suggested by the name, a small fraction of the people from the Earth Kingdom have the ability to telekinetically move earth.

The Fire Nation is an absolute monarchy ruled by the Firelord.  It's largely debatable whether the Firelord has always been an absolute monarch, but at the time of the story he has been for several generations.  Some people from the Fire Nation can bend fire.

The Air Nomads are a less centrally governed people.  Their children are raised in monasteries which are each run by a counsel of elders.  Adults spend their time traveling the world, which we don't really see a lot of, as suggested by the title.  All Air Nomads are airbenders.  I'll say a lot more on them later.

Finally, the Water Tribes are two sister city states occupying the antarctic and arctic continents.  They are culturally united, and politically united in name, although the tribes have separate government and basically exist totally independent of one another.

The Avatar is a human who is fused with the spirit of order (spirits are kind of a big deal but I'll get to them later).  Through a convoluted series of events that happened fuck-thousand years ago, the Avatar has the abilities to bend all four elements, to commune easily with spirits and with past Avatars, and to summon the wisdom and power of past Avatars.  The Avatar is responsible for keeping the world in order by keeping balance among mortals and between mortals and spirits.  Whenever an Avatar dies, the Avatar Spirit passes on to a new human.  An Avatar from the Fire Nation will always reincarnate into the Air Nomads, Air Nomad to the Water Tribes, Water Tribe to the Earth Kingdom, and Earth Kingdom to the Fire Nation.  This is called the Avatar Cycle.

But everything changed when the Fire Nation attacked!  A century before the events of the series, a Firelord by the name Sozin decided to go all white man's burden and conquer the rest of the world 'for their own good'.  (Note that while the Fire Nation is imperialistic and often plays the role of the West in political allegories, the cultures of the Avatar world mirror the Asian and Pre-Columbian American cultures of our world.)  He did this just as the previous Avatar died.

This brings us to our protagonist, Aang (pronounced like "angle" minus the "le"), who was the next Avatar up to bat.  He grew up like a normal Air Nomad, until he was twelve years old and the council at his temple decided to tell him he was the Avatar early (the usually tell the avatar when they come of age at 16).  Sozin's war was getting really bloody and showed no sign of stopping, so they wanted to accelerate Aang's training as the Avatar so that he could solve their problems.  Anyway, Aang was twelve so he ran away from home and wound up getting caught in a storm over the south pole and long story short wound up using latent Avatar powers to cryogenically freeze himself for one hundred years.

Eventually he comes out of it and the war is still going on, but now Sozin's grandson Ozai has all but taken over the world.  Aang finds himself in the Southern Water Tribe, which is only doing a little better than Carthage was after the Third Punic War.  Also Sozin used an astronomical phenomenon to kill all of the Air Nomads in the hopes of killing Aang.  Also in about six months Ozai is going to use the same phenomenon to take over the world.

**What I'm going to do**

The most basic change I'm making is to the Air Nomads.  In canon, they're all about spirituality.  I'm going to change that to science.  That is, the Air Nomads will have a very old and somewhat stagnant scientific tradition.  They value understanding of the world above all else.  Like in canon, the Air Nomads prefer thinking over acting and value the ability to ponder the world in a detached state of mind.  As such, the do not have particularly advanced technology.  They understand lots of principles, but do not act on them.  Aang, as in canon, is an oddball and does like acting.  He likes helping people and uses his power and wisdom as an airbender to do so.  The biggest change between canon!Aang and rational!Aang is that rational!Aang has an extremely analytical if flakey mind, and likes to think through problems rationally.  This is important, since his mind is going to be the crucible in which this story examines ideas about politics, morality, and society.

The next big change is to the Fire Nation.  In canon, Sozin destroyed the Air Nomads totally, and let their culture die with them.  His descendants were responsible for industrializing the Fire Nation in order to fuel their war machine.  This results in the Fire Nation being technologically superior to the rest of the world, using iron-hulled steam ships while everyone else still uses wooden sailing ships.  My Sozin has the advantage of conquering an Air Nomad population which is very knowledgable.  He is able to take this knowledge, much of which the Air Nomads had been reluctant to share with the world, and integrate it into the Fire Nation.  As a result, the Fire Nation in my story has a highly academic culture.  Most of it's aristocracy has been through an educational system comparable to that of 18th century Western Europe.  It also results in the Fire Nation having access to (primarily military) technologies that far surpass those they have in canon.  Importantly, it means that the major Fire Nation characters have all received an Int boost to bring them more onto Aang's level.

As for how the story itself is going to be told, each chapter/episode is going to play out as some social or moral problem that Aang and his friends have to solve (one of the reasons I picked this series is that that's already a major element of the stories).  I intend to use these stories as a device to explore ideas about these kinds of complex and deep problems that occur when you have a system as complex as human society.  One of the major elements that will be common is that there is no obvious correct answer.  There may be some clever workaround that circumvents the problem, or there may be some way for the heroes to solve the problem adequately, but there's probably never going to be a dilemma where there is one correct answer.  There will also be a layer of tactical conflict between the heroes and their antagonists, in which there might be correct answers, but that is separate from the moral dilemmas that are the real focus.

Another key element is that Aang's friends are going to quickly learn how to participate in discourse on the level he is used to, and I will be able to frame all sides of a debate by giving them to the characters as appropriate.

**What I don't know what to do about**

The real problem I'm having is with the way that wisdom is handled.  As I said earlier, the original show will usually have some moral or social exploration in each episode, either involving a "wise old man" figure discussing the principle which is explored, or having the characters figure out their way around the issue on their own.  I like this model, and have adequately altered the world to provide myself with "wise old men" to supply insight and experience without spoon-feeding my philosophies to the reader.

That said, the biggest problem I foresee is that conversion of the tradition-oriented, highly spiritualistic, fortune-cookie-esque ideals of the original show into the critical-thought-oriented, highly humanist, university undergrad circlejerk-esque ideals that I'm looking for.  Ultimately they are similar ideas, but I don't want them to be *too* similar, or else I'm just rewriting the show with some science flavor instead of making it fundamentally rational at the core.

There are also probably also scores of other problems that have not yet occurred to me but that maybe will occur to you, in which case please tell.

And my third problem, for those of you who have watched the show, what the fuck am I going to do with Toph?

### Comments:

- u/Liberticus:
  ```
  This sounds really interesting and I would love to read it. I'm just wondering if Aang will have the same playfull nature from the show. Will he use rational methods for playing pranks on people or something? In the show Sokka was the skeptic and (when the writers felt like it) the voice of reason, sometimes even to cynical of certain things. The interaction between him and Aang would be pretty different if they start with similar mindsets from the get go.

  The conversion from spiritual lessons to critical thinking lessons could be more of a blend where the wise old men have some good ideas but Aang has to sift through spiritual woo in order to learn something useful maybe even teach the teacher something new.

  BTW what's the problem with Toph?
  ```

  - u/Paradoxius:
    ```
    I accidentally closed this tab while I was typing up my response, so I'm going to summarize a bit.

    Aang is more or less the same person as in canon, but with better critical thinking ability (he still has spiritual depth, since that is a hugely practical skill in his world) and instead of having a false image of himself as some nature-child who the beasts of the Earth naturally flock to, he has a false image of himself as an Ender Wiggins archetype.

    Sokka is the cynic and wartime-mentality representative of the group to Katara's post-enlightenment feminists and Aang's critical utilitarian.  Aang and Sokka, and Katara and Sokka butt heads a lot over the proper use of violence.  Since Aang is essentially his universe's Ghandi, and Sokka is his universe's Che Guevara, it is to be expected.

    Iroh and Pathik are going to both be heavily rationalized, with Iroh being the "soft rationalist", someone who is rational and uses that to go about a pleasant life and help people when possible, and Guru Pathik being the "hard rationalist", someone who dedicates all of their time to optimizing what they believe to be the ultimate utility function.  Also Iroh is wrapped up in multiple layers of false personas in order to play the game of thrones in the Fire Nation.

    The rest of the White Lotus I don't know about.  Pakku definitely isn't that rational, but I have time to figure that one out.  He seems like an oddball anyway, since the other Lotus members are about as rational as one could expect.  And of course there are various other characters who are highly intelligent, with various motivations and desires which might not be in line with those of our heroes.

    As for Toph, she is never really a moral entity in the show.  While everyone else's motivations are very clearly explored, she's just kind of there.  Is she doing it out of loyalty to the Earth Kingdom?  Personal attachment to her friends?  Vendettas against her enemies?  Is she trying to prover herself?  Is she trying to help people?  Does she want moral justification to engage in violence for pleasure?  It's really never explained.  Even in the episode in which she joins up, it is left ambiguous as to whether she is motivated by a desire for freedom, a debt to Aang and co., or a moral decision.  And from that point onward it's just kind of assumed she's one of the good guys.

    If I'm writing what will essentially be a book series (if I ever get through the whole thing) about moral dilemmas, how do I deal with a major character without an explicit moral identity?

    Edit: I should probably mention a few of the ideas I had for Toph.  I think I'm going to have to give her some specific moral identity, but I'm unsure about the one I'm thinking of.  Basically, fuck the professional wrestling.  That is not what my story needs.  I'm playing up the double identity she has.  The Blind Bandit is an infamous earthbending thief in the Gaoling region.  She seems to be a small child and wears a mask which covers her eyes completely.  She targets high-profile caravans carrying large amounts of valuable materials.  These caravans are heavily guarded, but she specializes in incapacitating large groups.  As savvy readers may have suspected, she primarily targets the wealthy Beifong family, which controls more than three quarters of the wealth in the area.

    (For those of you unfamiliar with the show, Toph is a wealthy heiress of the Beifong family.  In canon, the Blind Bandit is her underground fighting alter-ego, but I'm making her a career criminal because it's more interesting.)

    I also want to play up that she is used to living the lap of luxury.  It never struck me quite right that she leaves home and she's just constantly this badass.  I know she ran away a lot, but it's unrealistic that she never misses being rich at all, even if it's just due to homesickness.
    ```

    - u/Liberticus:
      ```
      I don't really know a lot about writing but I love reading so my input might not be all that useful. It sounds like a good plan for your charachters and it's all going to be an AU story anyway so changing Toph works as long as you make her believable as a charachter.

      I've heard that the thing to do is to plan charachter out ahead so you know what they would do in a given situation, that's probably a pretty basic technique but hopefully useful. Making the Blind bandit an actual bandit sounds really appropriate, I like it. I think the show could have made a bigger deal about her wanting to be accepted for who she really is, something to work with perhaps?
      ```

    - u/None:
      ```
      Toph is motivated primarily by a desire to prove that she is capable and independent, the opposite of how her parents treated her. She's also quite smart in a common-sense sort of way and recognizes the need to train Aang so he can defeat the Fire Nation.
      ```

    - u/DaystarEld:
      ```
      > I'm playing up the double identity she has. The Blind Bandit is an infamous earthbending thief in the Gaoling region. She seems to be a small child and wears a mask which covers her eyes completely.

      This doesn't particularly make sense to me: the Bandit being so obviously blind would make the "Double identity" kind of flimsy, and no matter how aloof or clumsy she might act at home, there can only be so many blind earthbending girls in the area.

      I do like the idea of a "robin hood" Toph though, exploring ideas of social justice: just not sure how she can live that double life without making it obvious who she is.

      More discussion of how to handle Toph here:

      http://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/23c5d2/bst_im_working_on_an_avatar_the_last_airbender/cgvu0jm
      ```

      - u/loonyphoenix:
        ```
        I think Toph could plausibly maintain anonymity if she manages to hide the fact that she is blind while doing her heists. Of course, that requires a name change for her alias.
        ```

    - u/WriterBen01:
      ```
      May I suggest that you include a bit of class privilege in her morality? Aang is used to living as a Nomad, and Sokka and katara are both from a water tribe that has had very little during the time they lived there. Toph can come from a place of ignorance where wealth and social constructs are concerned. It's not that she is a bad rationalist; it's just that she is not aware of the huge influence of class on a very fundamental level. That said, she has to deal with privilege in another way too; where nobody really understands what it is like to be blind.

      She could also be a moral perfectionist, not taking into account the practical sides in moral dilemmas because she is not used to families lacking resources (time and money) to solve these problems.
      ```

      - u/Paradoxius:
        ```
        Good thoughts.  That can also be incorporated into her anti-establishment views.  She dislikes society and holds very specific moral viewpoints, but has not properly acknowledged the bias of her perspective.
        ```

- u/_brightwing:
  ```
  Yes! Yes! Yesss! We can never have enough of Avatar fanfiction – much less a rational/dc one :D

  Off the top of my head, what I can see..

  > "The most basic change I'm making is to the Air Nomads. In canon, they're all about spirituality. I'm going to change that to science."

  Perhaps the focus of their scientific development could primarily be philosophy oriented cognitive sciences? And maybe some advances in aerodynamics, to complement their bending. It wouldn't be too much of a deviation and be very believable coming from their society.

  >  "In canon, Sozin destroyed the Air Nomads totally, and let their culture die with them. His descendants were responsible for industrializing the Fire Nation in order to fuel their war machine." "..My Sozin has the advantage of conquering an Air Nomad population which is very knowledgable. He is able to take this knowledge, much of which the Air Nomads had been reluctant to share with the world, and integrate it into the Fire Nation."

  I love this idea. Perhaps instead of genocide he integrated the small proportion of surviving air nomads – like the very young and disabled (limbs broken – no bending), into Fire Nation itself? They are a resource which would not make sense to permanently lose. You could make a whole exploration on their lives in captivity - forced to work for the Fire Nation industry and researchers, being useful enough that they can have semblance of as normal of a life they can in an existence at the bottom of the pyramid.

  > “And my third problem, for those of you who have watched the show, what the fuck am I going to do with Toph?”

  I say, make her a runaway like in the show. But change her reasons for running away – to escape, disgusted of the mindless life of tradition. Some major conflict that sets her on the course of her path as a rationalist. But do make her a very different kind of rationalist than Aang. Maybe also something about her blindness leading her to gaining insight on the truer nature of bending thrown in.

  As for the others, it might be best to model Katara similar to Korra in writingathing’s work. Cut off from the world at its edge, meeting Aang setting off the spark for a burning desire to understand the world. Sokka could be something of a budding engineer. A lifetime of hunting giving him uncanny insights as a tactician.

  So looking forward to the first chapter – what is your progress writing wise so far?

  Edit: Please, please let the spirits be extra-dimensional alien entities that can manipulate matter on a fundamental level, following different laws of physics.. And change their behavior and interactions accordingly D:
  ```

  - u/Paradoxius:
    ```
    > Perhaps the focus of their scientific development could primarily be philosophy oriented cognitive sciences? And maybe some advances in aerodynamics, to complement their bending. It wouldn't be too much of a deviation and be very believable coming from their society.

    Basically what I was thinking.  They like passive and largely introspective sciences like cog sci (also I'm majoring in it, so it's kind of an area of expertise for me).  I was toying with the idea of Air Nomad aerodynamics giving the Fire Nation some form of gun, but I don't know about that one.  I know that the lack of guns in the original series is just to duck under ratings for violence, but there's something otherworldly about the lack of firearms.  Even if this is going to be hard fantasy, I want it to be hard *high* fantasy.

    > I love this idea. Perhaps instead of genocide he integrated the small proportion of surviving air nomads – like the very young and disabled (limbs broken – no bending), into Fire Nation itself? They are a resource which would not make sense to permanently lose. You could make a whole exploration on their lives in captivity - forced to work for the Fire Nation industry and researchers, being useful enough that they can have semblance of as normal of a life they can in an existence at the bottom of the pyramid.

    That's gross and horrible and I love it.

    > I say, make her a runaway like in the show. But change her reasons for running away – to escape, disgusted of the mindless life of tradition. Some major conflict that sets her on the course of her path as a rationalist. But do make her a very different kind of rationalist than Aang. Maybe also something about her blindness leading her to gaining insight on the truer nature of bending thrown in.

    I like that idea.  It works well in compliment with the idea I posted elsewhere in this thread about her being a notorious theif instead of a pro wrestler.  She's just an anarchist trying to fuck up the system because she lacks the insight to see (no pun intended) beyond the dichotomy of things working as they are and thinks breaking.  Until Aang and friends show up.

    > As for the others, it might be best to model Katara similar to Korra in writingathing’s work. Cut off from the world at its edge, meeting Aang setting off the spark for a burning desire to understand the world. Sokka could be something of a budding engineer. A lifetime of hunting giving him uncanny insights as a tactician.

    I like that thinking.  It works well with how they fit into the discourse scheme I'm setting up with Sokka as the cynic and representative of wartime mentality, and Katara as the compassionate post-enlightenment thinker.

    > So looking forward to the first chapter – what is your progress writing wise so far?

    I have about eight pages rough.  The trouble is that I have to set up characters *and* set up the world *and* settle into a writing style *and* make it entertaining.  Also, I'm writing the first three chapters (equivalent to the first three episodes) before I start posting them, although I'm going to post the first chapter for some peer review as soon as I have all the gaps filled in.

    > Edit: Please, please let the spirits be extra-dimensional alien entities that can manipulate matter on a fundamental level, following different laws of physics.. And change their behavior and interactions accordingly D:

    Sorry, doesn't jive with the way I've set up the universe.  The Spirit World is a parallel universe made out of a fundamentally different type of matter with fundamentally different laws of physics.  If you've read Dr. McNinja, it's a bit like the difference between McNinja's world and the Radical Lands.  One is just a more exaggerated version of what the other is relative to us.  That is, the changes in physics between this universe and the Material World of the Avatar universe are comparable to those between the Material World and Spirit World.  The Spirit World's weird physics, however, alter the Material World in a way that makes bending possible.
    ```

    - u/_brightwing:
      ```
      > “..instead of having a false image of himself as some nature-child who the beasts of the Earth naturally flock to, he has a false image of himself as an Ender Wiggins archetype.” “Since Aang is essentially his universe's Ghandi, and Sokka is his universe's Che Guevara..”

      I.. think I'm falling in love with your brain.

      > “Basically, fuck the professional wrestling. That is not what my story needs. I'm playing up the double identity she has. The Blind Bandit is an infamous earthbending thief in the Gaoling region.” “..She's just an anarchist trying to fuck up the system because she lacks the insight to see (no pun intended) beyond the dichotomy of things working as they are and thinks breaking. Until Aang and friends show up.”

      That sounds absolutely fantastic. It would add so much depth and sense of purpose to her character.. I can't wait to see interactions between Ender!Aang and a Toph like this.

      > “I was toying with the idea of Air Nomad aerodynamics giving the Fire Nation some form of gun, but I don't know about that one.”

      Doesn't have to be a gun.. How about a, I dunno a device (breathing horn? wrist gauntlet? cannon/ballista/turret thing?) that would help control the spread and intensity of the flames? Makes it easier to control the flames, increase the range etc. Something like that would contribute to combat a lot – and helps you show, in well a direct way  examples of how knowledge from the Air Nomads made technological leaps that made the Fire Nation a military power house.

      > “That is, the changes in physics between this universe and the Material World of the Avatar universe are comparable to those between the Material World and Spirit World. The Spirit World's weird physics, however, alter the Material World in a way that makes bending possible.”

      Scratch the alien theory – parallel connected universes sounds so much more interesting. A good explanation for bending too, the benders changing this world's reality by tapping into their connection with the other one. 

      Oh - and the Air Nomads could have also engaged in research trying to understand the Spirit World and their connection with it – totally fits in with canon! You could make Pathik as a specialist in this field, traveling the world researching areas with strong anomalies due to breach between the worlds..

      And, you know the parallel world thing does sort of make the spirits aliens - in a way :P


      Also, how do you feel about elevating the Avatar state from a power boost to something more like the Bene Gesserit’s genetic memory from the Dune series? Lost in a thousand lifetimes, their voices and muscle memory coming to him from across the ages..  

      Gives something of a cost in accessing the Avatar State – mental strain, a double aged sword. Much as I love Aang, I think he would be much more interesting this way like a messiah figure – more avatarish?

      Heck, with this you could make each access to the Avatar State significant and interesting – an excuse to write a mini interlude on a long dead avatar's memories related to the current scenario.
      ```

    - u/None:
      ```
      [deleted]
      ```

      - u/Paradoxius:
        ```
        Good point.  They could be sterilized, though.

        Edit: Wait, no.  I know what happened.  Never mind.
        ```

- u/comport:
  ```
  I'm pro-rational fanfiction, but I think they're more engaging when the story is retelling comes from the point of view of a supporting character from the original series.

  I think Sokka would make a really disarming choice for the rational protagonist. He's always incidental to the spirtual themes of every story, so you'd have less to rewrite, and the irony of the original series' idiot becoming the intelligent voice of reason is also appealing. 

  In the original Sokka was the perpetual outsider to the storyline, and he was used mainly to provide comic relief. This puts him in the perfect position to be supplanted by a rational character, with minimal collateral damage to the storyline, though I appreciate you may have done a lot of the work integrating rational Aang already.

  Fanfiction from the point of view of the antagonist is also very effective. Would you consider a rational fire lord? Waging a war of aggression to genuinely benefit the world.

  Sorry that I'm not answering your question and suggesting dramatic changes. I read a *lot* of fanfiction and supporting characters -> protagonist and antagonist -> protagonist are very effective. Like, they add +50 readability to any given fanfic.
  ```

  - u/Paradoxius:
    ```
    Actually, the way I've been writing it, there really isn't a "protagonist".  The story largely centers around Aang, but all of the 'Gaang' are about equal focuses of the plot, as are Zuko and Iroh and the other characters that get incorporated eventually.  Aang is central since he is the Frodo, in a sense, the reason for this adventure to be happening, but by the sixth chapter basically half-a-dozen characters are on equal ground as the focus of the story, and a dozen more are minor characters who have had perspective (I'm doing that Ice and Fire thing where the story is broken up into 3rd person limited segments for each character).

    As for Ozai as a good guy, definitely not.  I think the show did a really good job of representing imperialism and the problems therein, and without fundamentally changing the world, I don't think I can justify a protagonist Ozai without it just being that wanky "I'm making my hero do bad guy things to be edgy".  I like him as a rational villain though.  A person who totally understands the world, but has goals which are at odds with the morality of the heroes.
    ```

  - u/None:
    ```
    Sokka may have been the butt monkey, but he wasn't the idiot. On the contrary, he was organized, creative and inventive. That's why he came up with the group's plans, decided their schedule, handled the maps, and so on. Sokka's the obvious choice for the "rational" character because he always had to solve his problems with creativity and smarts rather than bending power.
    ```

- u/None:
  ```
  You might want to ask the people at /r/worldbuilding about worldbuilding.

  It's also worth noting that the two best rationalist fanfictions I've read (HPMOR and *The Great Alicorn Hunt*) don't update the world along rationalist or scientific lines but simply drop relatively rational characters into the insane canon world.

  In any case, what will make the fic worth reading or not is whether the story, characters, and plot are gripping and enjoyable. HPMOR gets a lot better when the writing loosens up and begins telling a story rather that simply setting up scenarios for HJPEV to lecture people about science.
  ```

  - u/Paradoxius:
    ```
    It's certainly something I considered, but ultimately I think the original world is *too* rational for that to work.  Sokka and Katara are each about a third of the way there to being rationalists, the world is filled with super-intelligent geriatrics who, for the most part, behave not only rationally but highly subtly and tactically,and the main villains of the show are schemers whose schemes always work in a probable way.  Even when people do behave irrationally, it's almost always a villain with irrational motivations who Aang has to fight and has no means for reasoning with anyway.

    If I just make Aang rational (and said that he learned it from some small school of airbender thought, maybe that Gyatso was a part of), it would just make him over-powered for the world he was in without changing much of the story.
    ```

- u/DaystarEld:
  ```
  I'm really excited about this: the way you describe the changes you have in mind sound great.  Avatar was actually one of my top considerations for what to write a rationalfic about before I ultimately decided on Pokemon: if you have any additional questions you want to discuss in more depth, feel free to shoot me a PM whenever.

  As to your questions:

  >what the fuck am I going to do with Toph?

  In my Pokemon rational!fic, I want every major protagonist to bring some aspect of rationality to the world: they may not all start there, but their perspectives are based off of rational principles.

  For example, Red is the "learned rationalist," who has studied extensively and thought critically about ideas, even if he's not as prepared to put those ideas into practice right away.  

  Blue is all about "experimentation" (even if he doesn't call it that) and values observation and results, though without a rationalist foundation he's going to initially be prone to biases and errors.

  Leaf is the outside perspective, the character most suited to questioning everything and approaching a problem from a virtually unbiased perspective.  She will serve as a great devil's advocate for any idea, and is best suited to ask the questions that others wouldn't think to ask.

  So, back to your fic: what you do with Toph has a lot to do with what you do with the other characters. In another post you detailed these, and they look pretty good so far.

  Personal recommendation for a niche Toph can fill: Toph's blindness makes her unique in regards to what it means to "prove" something.  The common adage, "seeing is believing," doesn't apply to her the way it does everyone else, because she has her own way of sensing things: the idea of deducing the existence of something she can't sense is paramount when you're missing something as central to people's daily lives as sight.

  For example, she knows better than anyone that there are some things that exist even if she can't detect them: facial expressions, for one thing.  A bird flying overhead.  The passage of time: it might get cooler if she's outdoors, but if she's inside, it's not like she can look out the window and notice daylight fading.  And the whole idea of clouds and stars and the moon, to her, are as alien of concepts as anything: they're purely visual phenomenon to us here on earth, so how does she conceive of them and accept their existence without simply trusting the masses that tell her they exist?  The masses might also tell her X god exists, that doesn't necessarily mean they do.

  >the biggest problem I foresee is that conversion of the tradition-oriented, highly spiritualistic, fortune-cookie-esque ideals of the original show into the critical-thought-oriented, highly humanist, university undergrad circlejerk-esque ideals that I'm looking for. Ultimately they are similar ideas, but I don't want them to be too similar, or else I'm just rewriting the show with some science flavor instead of making it fundamentally rational at the core.

  Could you expand on this, maybe give an example of what you mean? I'm not sure what you mean by them being similar.
  ```

  - u/Paradoxius:
    ```
    Regarding Toph I have, since typing up the OP last night, been considering her being the outsider and devil's advocate, playing into her distaste for the values of her society.  If she starts from a position of rejecting society and doing what she can to break it, she can then move into a position of rejecting society in its current form and doing what she can to change it and resist it.  The sheer difference in the way she experiences the world can be another aspect of her outsider identity.  There are very few people who will ever come close to having similar sensory capabilities to her, and she will never have the sensory capabilities the rest of the world takes for granted.  So even when the situation isn't about social values she is always going to be in a different position from everyone else.

    As for her maintaining a secret identity as the Blind Bandit, it's helped by several elements.  First, no one has seen both the Blind Bandit and Toph Beifong, since the Blind Bandit only interacts with mercenaries and merchants, the likes of which would never be allowed beyond the public rooms of the Beifong household (where Toph never goes).  Second, it's not known whether the Blind Bandit is *actually* blind.  She wears a blindfold, but that might just be a ruse, and most people think it is, since the Blind Bandit is a much better fighter than it is reasonable to expect a blind child to be.  Of course the real reason Toph wears a blindfold is to hide her extremely recognizable deformed eyes.  Basically both of these things play up the fact that anyone describing the Blind Bandit would say "she was very small, wore mud-caked clothes and a blindfold, and kicked our asses", to which no one in their right mind would respond "hey Lao, that sounds like your sick kid; she's small and can't see either".

    Which brings me to the third element that hides Toph's identity: something I'm going to call the Superman principle.  So Superman and Clark Kent look exactly the same, plus or minus rumpled clothes, some hair-gel, and a pair of inch-thick glasses.  Why does no one point that out?  Well, I have a professor who looks kind of like Mark Ruffalo, but no one would every suggest that he's secretly a movie star on the weekends.  There's no reason to suspect that Superman is anyone but Superman and that the resemblance between him and Kent is anything but a random coincidence.

    Similarly, to the people in her world, who do not have "masked adventurers" as a cultural staple, the Blind Bandit is *just* the blind bandit.  None of them would suspect that she secretly lives among the aristocracy when she's not holding up caravans.  She looks like she lives in the woods, there are loads of orphans and other homeless children living in the woods, so she's some homeless kid living in the woods.  Even if she is blind, it's not like blindness is that rare.  There are plenty of blind children, and it's more likely that this homeless-looking master earthbender is someone other than the coincidentally also blind but frail and unskilled Beifong heiress.  Heck, it's more likely she has some way to see through the blindfold and isn't actually blind at all than that it's Toph.
    ```

    - u/DaystarEld:
      ```
      >There are very few people who will ever come close to having similar sensory capabilities to her, and she will never have the sensory capabilities the rest of the world takes for granted. So even when the situation isn't about social values she is always going to be in a different position from everyone else.

      Right: it's the perfect niche for her to fill.

      >Well, I have a professor who looks kind of like Mark Ruffalo, but no one would every suggest that he's secretly a movie star on the weekends. There's no reason to suspect that Superman is anyone but Superman and that the resemblance between him and Kent is anything but a random coincidence.

      That's probably because "looks kind of like" and "looks exactly like" are two different things :)  Generally speaking, identical twins are very rare, but they do happen, and it's accepted because we understand genetics.  For two complete strangers to look exactly alike, the suspensions of disbelief is under much larger strain.

      That said, this only really applies to Lois Lane, who gets to regularly see both Clark and Superman up close.  The average person would have no reason to suspect that they're one, which is why this:

      > First, no one has seen both the Blind Bandit and Toph Beifong, since the Blind Bandit only interacts with mercenaries and merchants, the likes of which would never be allowed beyond the public rooms of the Beifong household (where Toph never goes). 

      Is a much better argument.

      I would say that the best way to really drive this home is simply not have anyone but the immediate family KNOW that she's an earthbender at all.  If most people just know her as "she's just their sick daughter," that goes a long way toward helping keep her secret identity, even before this:

      >Second, it's not known whether the Blind Bandit is actually blind... Heck, it's more likely she has some way to see through the blindfold and isn't actually blind at all than that it's Toph.

      Which is another good argument.

      As originally framed, it seemed like too much to ask that the blind earthbending daughter of a rich family wouldn't be suspected to be the same person as the blind earthbending girl burglarizing her family's caravans, but you're right, it can be done with the following points established:

      1) It's not quite clear that the blind bandit is blind (better to just call her the "bandanna bandit," as it would seem she's just wearing it to cover her face), or even a girl at that

      And

      2) Virtually no one outside of Toph's immediate family sees her, let alone knows she's an earthbender.

      There being a large presence of young orphan earthbender streetrats works well too, and serves as a good place for Toph to have learned her "rougher" mannerisms.
      ```

      - u/Paradoxius:
        ```
        I feel I should also note that, in canon, no one really knows that Toph exists at all, outside of the Beifong household...
        ```

  - u/Paradoxius:
    ```
    As for the latter, what I mean is that the canon story already engages in many of the principles of rational storytelling.  Generally the primary conflict of a story will be mental, challenging the hero to either outthink the villain or to determine the right thing to do.  Their physical power comes into play, but only as a means of executing their ideas.  Much of the show consists of a discourse about various topics, ranging from morality (especially to what degree the ends justify the means), to social issues, to dealing with one's own psychology.  Also, no one ever hands the hero the answer.  They have to figure it out for themselves, even if there is another agent pushing them in the right direction.

    Basically one could approximate rational fiction by substituting the wishy-washy terminology used in the original with something that means the same thing but is less ambiguous.  I don't want to do that, though.  I want to tell a different story that is fully rational, which, to me, means that I have to change a lot of it and make it significantly *more* about those intellectual discourses.  A the same time, the original was very real, and concerned itself with real problems that exist and that many people deal with.  I want to make sure I do this as well, both addressing personal internal struggles, and larger social conflicts, rather than keeping my discussions to lofty philosophical ideas.
    ```

    - u/DaystarEld:
      ```
      Makes sense. My suggestion then is to take the simplified ideas of the episodes and expand them.  I hate to use the word "gritty," but ground them in a more realistic framework.

      For example, the episodes where the GAang helps the earthbenders find their courage and fight back against the oppressing fire nation troops: explore what happens when the tables are turned, because if Avatar wasn't a kids' show, you know those troops are getting executed afterward (those that aren't crushed to death in the conflict itself, that is).  Go into how one treats the people oppressing them when liberation is earned, especially if most are "just following orders," and the implications of that, the psychology behind that (Milgram experiments) and the way roles influence behavior (Zimbardo experiments). Humanize the Fire Nation much earlier than the show does.

      Related to this, I actually have an issue with the way Avatar: The Last Airbender ends, because I saw "Spirit bending" as a deus-ex-machina that saved Aang from having to kill someone that really, really needed killing (matters of "deserve" aside) and circumvented the character development of his conversations with his past selves, especially the previous air nomad who explained that as the Avatar, his spiritual needs are put second to his duties to the world.

      But yeah, a lot of the morals were couched in circumstances that still kept the show kid-friendly: take the gloves off and I think you'll find the stakes up the ante quite a bit, both on what's required to solve problems and on the philosophy explored.
      ```

- u/AmeteurOpinions:
  ```
  The only thing I ask is to make the [Dai Li even scarier than they already are](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j7ETvN1Tuw8).

  *The Earth King has invited you to Lake Laogai...*
  ```

  - u/Paradoxius:
    ```
    That kind of stuff is exactly the reason I picked this series.  It's already extremely intelligent both in moral themes and in conflict, so it doesn't take much to take it up to a fully rational story.  There are several things that I feel the writers were holding back on to avoid making them *too* scary, and the Dai Li was one of them.  Rest assured, I'm going to push the envelope with them.
    ```

---

