## Rational worldbuilding: Simverse

### Post:

Rule-based worldbuilding, where each step into creating more detail is a logical consequence of the steps taken before it. Zero handwaving, no cheating to skip tot he end results.

The universe is a vast simulation for humans. It is a program duplicates reality as software inside a physical computer, allowing the user to change and test parameters to predict how they would affect the outside universe. Hence, the name **'simverse'**.

**The program is built to simulate humanity**, which is a pretty significant factor in this setting. 

The premise is that the simulator has been running for 200,000 years. That is a long time to leave any physical device running, and the simulator has become old and untended.

Like any machine running for too long, it has started failing. Bugs multiply and remain unchecked, revealing cracks in the programming. Humans, being modeled as an intelligent species, have noticed these errors. **Today, in the 23nd century, we can exploit it.**

Think of it as **being inside the Matrix, except there are no machines or humans 'plugged in'**. When people notice the aforementioned reality bugs and errors, they bring scientists to it and tell them:  "Do that again!"
 
Got the idea? Now bring it up to a cosmic scale. The universe around is just some forgotten background app running on god's laptop, and us, the people inside of it, have found the back door.

For this setting, **I'll be using lots of computing terms**. The aim of this setting is to provide a rich and *cool* environment for a **video game or a tabletop campaign**. Therefore, the focus is on combat, and the end result is to make for exciting and original mechanics. Military warships are described like overclocked gaming rigs, their pilots are more like 'hackers' and 'programmers' than 'naval officers'. Technology has remained pretty much the same as in the 21st century, but with reality manipulating engines tacked on.

Reality manipulation is allowed by the concordance of two limitations of simulation programming: **faulty verification** and **limited calculation speed.**

**Verification** is when the simulator checks if what it is displaying follows its own rules. Faulty verification allows the simulator to go ahead and allow physics-defying errors to persist. Doppelgangers, zero gravity, loops, time travel, wormholes, teleportation.... all of these happen when the **verification step is botched**. 

Conversely, when humans knowledgeable of the virtual and faulty nature of the world around them, attempt to recreate those errors intentionally, **they are not always detected**. The artificial errors induced go unnoticed or are ignored. The smaller the perturbation is, the easier it is the slip through the verification tool's net. I'll expand later on what exactly the verification step involves and how humans can bypass it or trigger it.

**Limited calculation speed** is the result of a computer being built in the physical world. To simulate all of reality, you'd need a computer that englobes all of reality, which is pointless. The simulator will always have a finite calculation capacity, and **it cannot simulate everything**. 

The simulator isn't God itself.

Now, since the simulation isn't all powerful, it has to **optimize what it spends its calculation power on**.  Like in a game, it focuses on the players, or in this case, humans. It only renders what humans can observe. By observe, I also mean 'what humans can be influenced by' and 'what instruments can detect'. This means that gravity doesn't cease to exist when you're in free-fall, and that UV light exists even if we can't observe it with the naked eye. 

This also means that everything a member of the human race isn't looking at, and cannot be influenced by, **isn't being rendered. If you ain't looking at something, it doesn't exist.** This has many implications for human reality hackers when they try to affect something you aren't certain the simulation is rendering or not. 
The other consequence of limited calculation capacity is **optimizations in the verification step**, leading to a greater impact of faulty verifications. The simulation saves power by only checking up a second time on major errors, and allowing small errors missed by the verification tool to exist until the next verification cycle.

Simulating reality is done in **cycles**. During a cycle, the simulator starts by loading the memory of the previously rendered environment, and applying its simulation algorithms onto it. Just like a laptop calculating the shadows to render in a video game, the simverse will calculate the acceleration vectors and radiation levels and the atomic positions and update them according to the laws of physics. 

Once it has completed all the steps necessary, it will check what is has just done with a **verification tool**. The verification tool has an easy job with the major elements (planet in it's place, yup, star emitting the same amount of UV and X-ray, check) but an exponentially more difficult job as it starts verifying smaller elements.

By smaller elements, I mean down to the atoms, quarks and gluons and smaller. 

The simulator, being old, decrepit and with a strict computing budget,  saves computing power by rendering areas directly next to humans with very fine detail, and areas far away from humans with lower detail. The **rendering cycles** in presence of humans are very frequent, providing realtime input. The same goes for probes sent far away, since the provide information back to humans. 

As the distance increases from the human observers, the **cycle frequency drops**, and the details become much less refined. Very far away, and strange things start happening. Planets become dots defined only by mass and vector. The speed of light goes from 299,792,458 m/s to a simpler 300,000,000m/s. Gravity becomes uniform. Even further away, the rendering cycles are measured in years, solar systems are approximated into mass occupying a certain volume and gravity becomes a mean-defined force spanning light years. There's no point in rendering other galaxies in realtime, after all, when the focus is on humans.

Of course, the simulator isn't stupid. When you point a telescope at Andromeda, the simulator immediately allocated a bunch of resources into **making the image believable**. 

Humans are aware of the **discrepancy in calculation power allocated to different distances**. They coined the term **'realtime zone'** to define the area in which rendering cycles are so fast that no human or instrument can notice an interruption or witness an object updating. Outside of the 'realtime zone' are concentric bands of increasing width, each with a lower frequency that the one inside of it.  These so called **'slow zones'** are a major factor when it comes to travel.

The size of a realtime zone is defined by the **number and concentration of people** inside of it. Realtime zones are uniform, spherical volumes. Each conscious human has his or her own realtime 'bubble'. This bubble merges with that of nearby humans to create a realtime zone with a equal diameter.

**Diameter, not volume**.

Therefore, if a person has a realtime zone with a diameter of X, and stands next to another person from a distance Y, the diameter of the realtime zone around both people is 2X+Y.

**The result of this is that realtime zones around a group of people are absolutely humongous compared to that of 1 or 2 people standing next to each other.**

I'll talk more about realtime zones and why they are important when you try to HACK THE UNIVERSE.


### Comments:

- u/Nepene:
  ```
  For most of these stories, some sort of large scale conflict is necessary to make the setting interesting- pirates, dark lords, invaders, universe ending bugs, whatever. Does your universe have any such threats?
  ```

- u/Gurkenglas:
  ```
  What counts as human? An unscrupulous person is gonna think of this and experiment on humans and other primates on whether mental diseases, brain damage and other modifications have an effect on the presence/size of their realtime zone. If what marks a person as human is nonessential, one might reproduce the marker en masse to effectively create an antimagic field that the simulator looks at *very* closely (or even overload the simulator by raising the number of "human"s by a few orders of magnitude, for whatever purpose), or one might remove one's own marker to allow self-enhancing/affecting magic.
  ```

  - u/krakonfour:
    ```
    This is a major point during attempts to HACK THE UNIVERSE. I'm going to mention it in my next post, but one thing I can say is that no, primates do not trigger the creation of realtime zones whatever their mental state.

    Humans do not know how exactly the simulation knows where they are and whether they are conscious or not. At least, not yet at this point of the setting. What they do know is that the realtime zone around a living human can be reduced but never negated, ie even a person in a coma will be provided with correct sensory input.
    ```

- u/Laborbuch:
  ```
  I was sure I had read/hear a comparable setting, with a different background, some time ago and am guessing it was in Escape Pod.

  Premise: Our world is a simulation on the server of a sociology department somewhere and the study it was programmed for just concluded. Since we [simulated humans] clear the requirement for ethical treatment the sociology department decided to keep our simulation running in the barest sense: Humans don't age, the environment will keep doing what it just did for eternity (where it rained, it will rain forever, no continental drift, wind at that time will always be of the same force and vector, you get the drift). The downscaling wasn't perfect though, and the story ends with the character finding and exploring very non-euclidian glitches.
  ```

- u/TheGeorge:
  ```
  Reminds me very much of a plot point in the Ed stories by QNTM guy.

  Ed somehow figured out a code which destroyed a large amount of sentient space. The logistics were never really padded out as he was going for very soft sci-fi in that series.

  Here's the thing, I really absolutely love the concept. But how would it be implemented in storytelling?

   Would one start at the beginning of the sim or would one start with us knowing exactly as much as a character or set of characters in the sim would know?

  It also gives one the opportunity to explore the nature of reality from a hypothetical outside of reality, which is a cool bit of a side dish of philosophy.
  ```

- u/SaintPeter74:
  ```
  Pretty interesting idea.  I think a key element is that errors are not always detected . . . but no one know exactly why they are not detected.  Is it an issue with the state checker?  Some hidden variable that affects the render but which is not directly observable?  A "memory leak" or "buffer overflow"?

  The implications for continuing to attempt to create and manipulate those errors may ultimately affect the stability of the entire system/universe.  Oops, BSOD on the universe . . . time for another big bang.
  ```

- u/Empiricist_or_not:
  ```
  I'm confused, why is this being used for warfare, instead of **That alien message**, style escapology?
  ```

---

