## Simverse II

### Post:

In this post, I'll go into more detail as to how exactly the nature of the reality around the setting's human was discovered, how the simulation can be altered by humans and what the effects and consequences of hacking are. It's pretty long, s bear with me.

I mentioned before that when errors were finally determined as defects in reality, scientists came over to experiment on them.

It certainly wasn't a straightforward process. For centuries, we saw such bugs as being 'miracles', 'ufo sightings', 'visions' or belonging to the 'supernatural'. It didn't help that the only people who witnessed or felt them were isolated and far away from other humans. Only when they began increasing in frequency that they began attracting attention.

For years however, the moment a bunch of people with sensitive equipment showed up in the affected area (invariably remote and isolated), the anomaly disappeared. Their presence was driving up the computational requirements of the area, forcing the verification tool to reactivate and correct whatever errors there were.

It was only when a certain diver equipped with a digital camera mysteriously disappeared from sonar over the Marinas Trench. The underwater investigation that followed revealed that he had been crushed to pulp at barely 100m underwater. Fragments of the camera's memory card was recovered, and a painstaking data recovery revealed two things:

-The diver had apparently descended into a void. He fell through the water edge, hit the bottom of the vacuum sphere, then seconds later, it collapsed when he tried to take a photo. The pressure spike crushed him.

-The camera was transferring data onto the memory card when the anomaly disappeared and it was crushed. Along with the image data, the memory card was filled up, all 4TB of it, with mysterious writing.

The writing is what intrigued the world. It was initially thought to be programming language, but it was nothing like on Earth. Some compared it to DNA, in that it was divided into sections of equal length, with specific data at the beginning and end of each section. Others found resemblances to the data collected for human machine-brain interface research, with something akin to brainwaves translated into another language. 

The breakthrough came when researchers realized that they were looking at the data the wrong way: It was not bit-based. Each data point was not a 0 or 1, but could accommodate five states: 0, 0a, a, 1a and 1, with 'a' being a quantum state. By adapting the existing quantum computers, they were able to translate and run a fraction of the code. 

Simply attempting to read the information it using a quantum processor destroyed every single bit of electric information in a 10m radius from the processor, and the researchers within that radius forgot that what they were trying to do.

Multiple attempts to recreate the experience ended up with results ranging from 'nothing happened after weeks' to 'we lost all the data again'. 

What they *did* discovered was that the data coded for information, that the presence of humans affected the results of the experimental runs and that the data could be organized into two sections: one was easy to decipher, repetitive and varied little, the rest was humungous, indecipherable, non-rational in nature (values didn't add up where they found equations) and certainly incomplete.

It was only years later that humans attempted to run the code from space. The data was wiped 1 second later than any previous experiment. Theorizing that distance was the key to completing the experiment, researchers ran the code further and further away from earth. 

You should understand that by now, people were doubting that the data on the broken memory card was of any significance, the costs of the experiments were growing higher and higher. 

One final project was conceived. Researchers built a very long spacecraft (100m), with a nuclear drive on one end and a quantum processor on the other. They sent it into space and devised a way to maintain the code looping in the processor despite the memory wipes. The rear end of the spacecraft was somehow far away enough from the 'memory wipe area' to be affected.

The project never gave any new results, and it was abandoned.

A decade later, the spacecraft appeared 100m underwater, over the Marinas trench, in the exact same spot where the diver had died, with a new set of data. It had teleported over fifty thousand astronomical units.

The event restarted research in deep space.

Here are the main things they found out:

-The 'simple' part of the code determined the location of a certain volume of space in relation to the center of the Earth. Coordinates, in other words, with 5 values, implying that something more than just the position in space was being determined. The universe is divided into cube-shaped sectors. Sectors in observer-dense spaces have a strictly equal size: 50x50x50m. Sectors become larger as the distance from observers increases. Currently, you have to go further than lunar orbit for the sectors to increase beyond 51x51x51m. Most of the solar system is divided into 100x100x100 cubes, and past the Oort Cloud, we have sector sizes easily reaching the 1km size. This is important later on. 

-The 'complex' part of the code described what was inside of that volume of space. It is absolutely huge, and still as untranslatable as ever, but a complete set of data from the probe revealed that 'empty' space had a much simpler and shorter definition than something filled with a near monotonous medium, like 'water', and that the presence of a human made the size and complexity explode. 

-The data, was in fact a programming language for an advanced quantum computer, and it described reality, and that eventually modifying that code and running it on an adapted quantum processor could affect reality itself. 

Of course, a lot was discovered in short order after those initial discoveries, and people freaked out and religions were toppled and a time of species-wide depression came and passed but that's for another post.

The memory wipes which frequently hindered research was found to be an adaptation of the simulation's verification tool to the increasing frequency of bugs and errors. 

The verification tool, past the first application, sits back and does nothing for a few render cycles to save on computing power. Then, periodically, it checks what the simulator is producing and corrects any errors it can.

The verification tool has a certain tolerance for errors it deems 'acceptable'. If a major error appears, or a significant accumulation of small errors start affecting reality, the verification tool is forced into action 'out of cycle'. This triggered search is much more thorough than the regular verification. Furthermore, if the triggered verification cannot complete its correction task in time for the next scheduled regular verification, it 'resets'.

A reset is when the simulation loads up the 'last saved configuration' for a certain volume in space, and replaced it with the 'current configuration' it has deemed corrupted by errors. 

It is called a 'reset' and not a 'wipe' because the old reality skips forward in time and replaces the current one. This is why space-devouring viruses don't work, nor does trying to eliminate suns or move planets. Too big an error just leads to a reset. 

A corollary is that time travel is impossible, since the simulator hasn't rendered the future yet, and trying to access the past is akin to fiddling with the 'saved configurations': the reset will smack you back in the past so hard you might not even remember that you were trying to time travel. Also, if you try to time-travel to a time you are outside of your current 'sector', the simulation can't update you into a different sector with another time setting... you'll just disappear. 

Of course, such a course of action is adaptive. With a large number of observers, like on Earth, the verification tool is basically running in realtime alongside the rendering engine. When the number of observers decreases, verifications are less frequent, and the tolerance for errors is higher. Verification frequency goes from 10e-40 seconds (nearly Plank Time) up to 1 second frequencies past lunar orbit, and reaches the minute by the time you enter the Oort Cloud. 
 
A reset is not instantaneous. While the verification tool forces the rendering engine to load up a saved configuration, access to the simulation is locked. This is called a 'freeze'. For a duration of a few milliseconds to a few hours, no reality hacks are possible. 

Yes, to those who asked, you can trigger a freeze and reset if you intentionally attempt to induce a massive error in reality.

### Comments:

- u/Nepene:
  ```
  Could someone fire a host of nuclear missiles from an area, trigger a reset in their cube, and as such, duplicate the missiles?
  ```

- u/AmeteurOpinions:
  ```
  You should post these to /r/worldbuilding. They'd love it.
  ```

  - u/krakonfour:
    ```
    That's where they originated from :)
    ```

---

