## Simverse VI

### Post:

As you saw in Simverse V, duplicating sectors is a very time consuming process. The worst part is not that it takes a multiple month-long run to complete a duplication attempt, but that it locks up the used sectors for many times those months. No-one else can use them during that period. 

The economy is a semi-post-scarcity environment. Scarcity is when a civilization has a finite source of products to use. On Earth, we live in an Iron scarcity, even if we have access to billions of metric tons of it: our technology does not allow us to reach further down than the skin of our crust. Agriculture can be considered a scarcity, because even if we can grow things on Earth indefinitely, we are limited by the finite supply of soil nutrients and cultivable area. 

Post-scarcity is when a civilization has access to as many products as it wants, forever. An example in scifi is replicators, that atomically rearrange anything into anything. 

In this setting, duplication plays the role of an imperfect duplicator. Any raw material can be copied endlessly. However, this only shifts the scarcity from something material to something immaterial: time.

Here's an example:

Imagine we leave Earth on a tiny, 100m long craft. It carries a 10x10x10m cube of platinum that weighs 21.5 kilotons, and is equal to the world's production for the last century. It can be valued as approximately 1.15 trillion dollars.

One duplication run lasting a year can leave you with a platinum price drop from 53000/kg to 8800/kg. At that rate, platinum mines everywhere close up shop, and the prices drop even lower, since everyone knows that they can take that same amount of platinum, and end up with a price of 730/kg next year. 

So now we've established that in two years, you can break the resource economy. Does that mean that the economy is over?

No. There's time.

To manufacture a product, you need equipment you cannot duplicate, labor hours you cannot duplicate, expertise, knowledge, blueprints, supply chains and a whole load of TIME. 

To obtain new material, you need very lengthy, costly, space missions. 

You might imagine that locking up a few sectors in space is nothing special, but they cause a huge delay when it comes to duplicating for a second time. 

Space is big, right?

Yes, but not that big. 

In this setting, space has a value, like the oceans do. On their own, they're just empty space. However, they also represent a chance to duplicate millions of tons of raw material. The opportunity to use certain sectors is only available once every year for the ones with the greatest return. 

Here's how it goes:

The Human Resource Council finds a solar system and places an observer in a Lagrange point. It's basically a human in a small ship paid to watch empty space. After stabilizing the neighbourhood with a laser beacon (illuminated sectors are forced to render at a faster pace), the HRC opens up the solar system for bidding. Government Krakon drops a load of cash and buys planet Four. A ship from the government visits planet Four and plants a flag on it. It now owns all the sectors that surround the planet, out to a certain distance, in a band that traces the planet's orbit.

This is easily 38.9*10^21 m3 for an Earth-like planet with an Earth-like Moon. You can imagine that SuperJupiters with extended moons are pricier.

This area is where Krakon citizens are allowed to attempt short, multiple duplication attempts, each with a low chance of yielding a duplicated product. Of course, there are laws. The duplicator has to be registered and regulated. You have to declare your returns. You can't lock up sectors that are otherwise required for travel, or nearby the planet. You can't attempt to duplicate near sectors that contains humans or private property. You can't attempt to duplicate indefinitely; there's something akin to a "Hacking for commercial purposes" fee. 

You can imagine that a calculation-intensive duplication that yields with a 1% chance per sector is not very popular. It is primarily aimed at small enterprises that cannot invest in a space trip that lasts up to a year. The equipment used is most likely government owned; it'd be akin to buying government bonds and hoping for a profit by the time you sell them back.  

You can imagine that there's a huge amount of empty space, even if we sell off all the orbital space to governments. Most of it is contained above and below the orbital plane. They have much greater value than national space, since they are still easy to reach, yet have greater yields (2-3%). The negotiation for this space is an intra-system negotiation updated second-by-second. The objective is to buy the sectors your spaceship is going to cross for the lowest price, while making sure that two spaceships don't overlap their duplication zones.

The real value comes from the deep space sectors. They have high return rates, but lock up for up to a year, are difficult to travel through and can only be accessed through guesswork (sending an observer destroys their yield rate). 

A couple thousand of these gigantic sectors can englobe an entire solar system. They are finite in number, since there is only a relatively thin band between the edge of the solar system and the unrendered deep space. Uncontrolled duplicators can freeze up this space for decades in just a few weeks. 

For most solar systems that have no plans for colonies or settlement, most of their value is in this thin band. Short term investors buy such solar systems and sell off their 'slow zones' to crowded markets. Some years later, they can repeat the sale. Other solar systems, those that are already rich and are not desperate for cash, sell off these sectors piece by piece to the highest bidder. For a solar system like ours, these zones are trillion-dollar investments, since each duplicator is a state-funded barge loaded with billions of tons of raw materials. They are strictly watched and sold out decades in advance. 

So now that we've established that products are valued in the time they take to make, and that complexity and industry are still worth something, how does all this affect society?

We'll answer that in Simverse VII, the final post.


### Comments:

- u/Nepene:
  ```
  Poor overworked simulator. Repeatedly abused for the sake of profit.
  ```

  - u/krakonfour:
    ```
    It's become a universal gambling machine. Put coins in, smash the keys and watch coins appear.
    ```

---

