## [RT][HF] Legend Of The Galactic Heroes

### Post:

> In every age,

> in every place,

> the deeds of men

> remain the same.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mHc9VCGWC24

Guys, I've been watching this show over the past few months with my brother, and I although I haven't watched all the way to the end I cannot deny it from this sub any longer. The above review summarizes just about everything I would want to say, so just watch it if you have fifteen minutes to spare.

I would like to mention two things that the reviewer didn't, being that you totally can go into it without knowing any of the backstory and still have a blast if you are paying attention. The second point, and the main reason I am recommending it to all of you, is that, in this show, **the characters are smart enough to predict the plot and respond accordingly, which makes it very difficult for the viewer to do the same.**

I have never seen an anime be so thoughtful and dramatic at the same time. This is a show where a prince can try and rebel on the edge of space, and when the Imperial fleet lays siege he is stabbed repeatedly in the toga (he was wearing a toga) by his courtiers and falls backwards down a marble staircase.

This is a show where the interiors of the battleship command bridges resemble WWII battleship conning towers, where the Empire has regressed into literal noble families with a literal peasant class, where boarding parties use battle axes and where *two Death Stars fight each other*.

This is a show where good leadership *matters*, where the stakes are high and the willpower palpable, where offensive campaigns can be decided by a single commander of a faraway outpost doing what he thought was best, and where "the Kaiser should seriously consider the subject of marriage".

I would advise that you not try to critique the science fiction aspect, since it's thinner than a potato chip. *Legend of the Galactic Heroes* exists in a fantasy realm where humanity can nuke itself to near-extinction repeatedly without learning anything and still uses floppy discs for storing files. I tagged it as Hard Fantasy for a reason -- it has a collection of plot devices which are used consistently, strange as they may be. It is Space Opera to the core (look at the title), but goshdarn it if it isn't the best I've ever seen.

**If you want a long running show with an excellent plot, amazing characters, incredible scale, classical soundtracks and insightful questions, you will love *Legend of the Galactic Heroes*.**

### Comments:

- u/bbrazil:
  ```
  Superb show, be warned that the pacing is pretty slow so it takes 5-6 episodes to get into it. Then you're not going to be doing anything else for a while.

  Does anyone know what the mechanics are for the ship lasers? The beams don't seem to spread out enough to explain why they only work at a relatively short range, and not understanding the mechanics that meant I didn't get some of the battle tactics (there's lots of space battles).
  ```

- u/GeeJo:
  ```
  If you want to try it out without the intimidation factor of starting up a 100+ episode show, start with the prequel film [My Conquest is the Sea of Stars](http://myanimelist.net/anime/3014/Ginga_Eiyuu_Densetsu:_Waga_Yuku_wa_Hoshi_no_Taikai), which more or less establishes the tone you can expect for the rest of the run. If you like it, the prologue film to the main series, [Overture to a New War](http://myanimelist.net/anime/3016/Ginga_Eiyuu_Densetsu:_Arata_Naru_Tatakai_no_Overture) sets things up nicely.
  ```

- u/Chousuke:
  ```
  Be careful. I watched the entire series in one weekend, and it was quite tiring.
  ```

---

