## Whoa, Dude, Are We Inside a Computer Right Now?

### Post:

[Whoa, Dude, Are We Inside a Computer Right Now?](https://www.vice.com/en_uk/read/whoa-dude-are-we-inside-a-computer-right-now-0000329-v19n9)

1. Is consciousness "magical" or a complex machine?

I think it's more magical than mechanical. 

2. Is human life like the Sims?

My life is nothing like the Sims. I think the domestic life of the Sims isn't indicative of the human experience. 

3. Is "conspiracy theorist" a derogatory term?

I think it could be. I've never personally seen it used that way. But it's a dangerous thing to label people with ideas in that way.

4. Do quantum phenomena point towards our universe being a simulation, specifically in regards to "seeing what we need to see" (in the article)?

I'm not a quantum physicist. I've heard that stuff is real. 

5. Could we be tricked into thinking we're conscious/in control when we're really simulations on a machine?

a) I think so. I think the magical property of consciousness would give our life value in that case through art. I think art serves a few purposes, the main one being to record experience. Another one is to elicit an experience. I find that more comforting than the idea that I am a useless person.

b) I've heard in an AI debate that even human creativity is overrated. Machines can write music, draw pictures, and generally create at a rate much higher than we can. 

My goal is to record this experience. I was going to bring up quantum physics and as you know, bringing down the house with physics facts is a risk. I started with lesson 1.

Quantum physics is real science. One of the problems in quantum physics is known as Observational Influence, where:

>Our universe is meant to be observed.

Lesson 2 is much more difficult.


### Comments:

- u/Prezombie:
  ```
  Of course we're inside a computer. After all, the universe is turing-complete...
  ```

---

