## Community for rationalist writers and readers: ideas and suggestions

### Post:

Hi! I really like this subreddit and people here, so I'm thinking - maybe it's a good idea to create our own community website?

We could start with a forum and maybe community blog/wiki, and see where it goes from there.

Do you like this idea?

What would you like to see in our website?

Here's what I have in mind(just some ideas to discuss, not necessary to have all of that in the beginning):

- Community blog or wiki with articles on rationalist fiction
(any suggestions on how you would prefer it to be organized? MediaWiki is an option, but since there's a lot of technical people here we could use github and a static website generator, that could be more convenient)
- Collection of resources for writers
- Book suggestions and discussions
- Competitions - we could have a weekly writing prompt and write short stories on that topic
- Book Club for group reading - every month we could have a "theme" with 1-2 books,  read and discuss them together.
- Sharing your own rational fanfics/stories and getting feedback
- Work and Progress and Brainstorming - discussing the stories you are currently writing, getting advice and ideas

What do you think? Would you like it to exist? What else would you like to see there?

### Comments:

- u/None:
  ```
  Well, that sort of thing is what I've always thought this subreddit was for.

  How about, before we split the community even further, we just try some of these fun new ideas here? The mods are very open to suggestion.
  ```

---

