## GEB Discussion #12 - Chapter #11: Brains and Thoughts

### Post:

**Gödel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid**

This is a discussion of the themes and questions concerning the **Chapter 11: Brains and Thoughts** and its dialogue, **English French German Suite**.

**Science!**

Interestingly enough, this chapter is very different from all of the previous chapters in that Gödel, Escher, and Bach are never mentioned even once. In fact, this chapter is very focused on what neuroscience, Hofstadter’s career, has to say about the brain. Unfortunately, this chapter is quite out of date since there has been a tremendous about of research done in the decades since the first publishing of **GEB**.

For example, Hofstadter says
> Glia are believed to play more of a supporting role to the neurons' starring role, and therefore we will not discuss them.

Which is incorrect, but only insofar that glia cells shouldn’t be thought of as a support for neurons, but as partners with neurons. Glial roles are maintaining the stability of neurons, modulating the speed of transmission between neurons, modulating synaptic action by controlling the transmission between neurons, providing a scaffold for and directing some aspects of neural development, and aiding in (or preventing, in some instances) recovery from neural damage. Glial cells play a major role in ensuring proper neural function and ability to think. Here’s a good [article](http://www.scientificamerican.com/article/the-root-of-thought-what/) which talks about the potential importance of glia. Did you know that [Einstein’s brain](http://www.brainfacts.org/brain-basics/neuroanatomy/articles/2010/glia-the-other-brain-cells/) was remarkable for having more glia cells than the normal brain?

Hofstadter then gets into talking about how there are layers of processing going from the low-level processing of details in our surroundings up to recognizing high-level concepts of people and everyday objects.

He gives a good description of how neurons work and the analogy with ant colonies is a very good one with no single neuron/ant being responsible for a single idea, but rather it’s in the complex interactions between groups of neurons/ants that develops into concepts and intricate structures.

Hofstadter then leads into the [grandmother cell](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grandmother_cell) problem which is basically how we are capable of recognizing highly specific things such as family members, a favorite paint-brush, the feel of a fruit, the colors of the dog’s fur, and so on. It has been calculated that if every single neuron corresponds to a unique concept, then the size of such a hypothetical brain would be light-years in size. Clearly, there can’t be a neuron just for detecting when you see your grandmother. However, if we think back to Hofstadter’s ant colony analogy, it should be understood that concepts aren’t embedded in the neurons, but rather the firing pattern of multiple neurons interacting. Memory is stored non-locally in multiple parts of the brain when the firing pattern is reactivated to stimulate recall without observing the same input as the original experience. But it gives the illusion of locality when it turns out that probing a very small group of neurons can cause recall.

The literature on concepts is a large field with many theories describing different aspects of how concepts work, but no theory currently describes everything about a concept. For example, the proto-type model Hofstadter mentions is the idea that membership in a single class can depend on how similar an object is to a ‘proto-type’.  One instance is even numbers with the #2 as the prototype. People have often said (in surveys) that #2 feels more like an even number than #12 which is more of an even number than #178. It’s why we can say that certain objects are more ‘representative’ of a classification than others.

However, the prototype theory fails when it comes to ad-hoc categories such as “things I would grab from my burning house”. We can make up categories on the spot with no obvious connection between the members. Virtually all theories in the field currently have some flaw in them and there is no clear way to combine them as to compensate for each other’s shortcomings.

Note that everything which is explained in this chapter should best be understood as an intro to how the brain was thought to work with the understanding that further research has been done to either refute incorrect ideas or expanded on the correct ones. It does work very nicely as a teaser into more interesting parts of the field.

Feel free to ask me questions on the concepts in this chapter. I’m a college student majoring in Cognitive Science and can probably answer most questions.

……

**Dialogue**

The goal of this dialogue may be very confusing, but it’s meant as an interlude about Lewis Carroll’s poem *Jabberwocky* along with two translations into French and German (with the translations from last century).

Since the dialogue seems intended to make the reader think about translations, I’ll focus the questions on that aspect. Translation, by its very nature, is typically a difficult task, since there is no one-to-one mapping between different words in different languages. Yet most concepts expressed in one language can very likely be expressed in any other language, which is similar to expressing the same theorem in two different formal systems with different procedures of derivation.

However what if you are translating a very idiosyncratic phrase from one language to another such as *Jabberwocky*? Would a translation of *Jabberwocky* be harder or easier to make than more common English sentences? How do you translate the nonsense words in the poem?

There are entire books written around the problem of translating the [*Jabberwocky*](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jabberwocky).

Wikia Links:

* [Chapter 11](http://godel-escher-bach.wikia.com/wiki/Chapter_11)

* [English, French, German Suite](http://godel-escher-bach.wikia.com/wiki/English_French_German_Suite)

Coming up next on April 16th is Chapter XII: Minds and Thoughts.

The discussion for the previous chapter is posted [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/32l5ab/geb_discussion_11_chapter_10_levels_of/).

The discussion for the next chapter is posted [here](http://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/33dmiu/geb_discussion_13_chapter_12_minds_and_thoughts/).

[Official Schedule](http://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/2yys1i/lets_start_the_read_through/).

### Comments:

---

