## [BST/WIP] Artists Roll Call / Crowdsource Quest

### Post:

*Experienced GM seeks someone who can, y'know, actually hold a pen to draw for a [Homestuck](http://www.mspaintadventures.com/?s=6) or [Kill Six Billion Demons](http://www.mspaintadventures.com/?s=6) style quest; in whatever setting /r/Rational thinks would be fun.*

I'm bored! I'm busy! I have a bunch of half-written fics I can't get around to working on!

There's been a lot of talk about someone maybe running a game where one person controls and designs the setting, and everyone else makes suggestions for the protagonist. Well, I'd love to do it.

I have exams, so I definitely don't have time to write up a full story, I think; but I *do* have several outlines I could easily adapt to produce a well-defined set of behind-the-scenes mechanics, a cast of characters with unique abilities, and a **bunch** of plot hooks.

So:

* What setting would you lot like to play with?
 * *The Gothic Man*, where you play a rational Bruce Wayne in post-Metropolitan-Man Gotham; dealing with the post-Superman crimewave, suspicious breakthroughs from Lex Luthor, and some ... rumours.
 * An untitled thingie set in a slightly cleaned-up *Star Trek* setting, on a survey mission on the edge of Federation space. You deal with, y'know, Star Trek. Might be able to add some new characters to this one if anyone has suggestions.
 * *Hermione Jean Granger and the Prisoner of Azkaban* - you control super-Hermione immediately after the end of HPMOR. Set in my own headcanon, obviously, so there's a ton of stuff that hasn't come up in the original story.
 * Maybe something set in the *Star Wars* universe? I don't actually have any story outlines written in this setting, but ...
 * *The New Adventures of Squirrel Girl*. You are [Squirrel Girl](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Squirrel_Girl), a mutant with weak squirrel-themed powers (who, as a running gag, fights and beats "unbeatable" villains constantly.) Go nuts! Set in an AU of "standard" Marvel, so it makes more sense and OOC knowledge doesn't break everything - along the lines of *With This Ring*.
* Any talented or not-talented artists out there, willing to draw a picture every, oh, day or two to accompany a paragraph of text for this? Please? Pretty please?

### Comments:

- u/callmebrotherg:
  ```
  The Gothic Man. That sounds really, really awesome.
  ```

- u/Zephyr1011:
  ```
  I'd vote for both Squirrel Girl and Gothic Man
  ```

- u/Transfuturist:
  ```
  Star Trek ;_;

  Otherwise, The Gothic Man. But first and foremost Star Trek.
  ```

- u/None:
  ```
  Sounds good so far! if you get an artist in on it.

  "Gothic Man" could be cool. Or the HPMOR one. Something I already know and love, basically, rather than going in blind.
  ```

- u/jakeb89:
  ```
  I would volunteer, except that I'm a perfectionist and super slow as a result. The best you could expect from me would be sketches.
  ```

  - u/FeepingCreature:
    ```
    I wonder if it's feasible to set up a pipeline where different volunteers sketch, ink and color. Is there any (web) software that supports setting up staged tasks like this in a visually appealing format? Maybe with an added bounty system?
    ```

- u/CopperZirconium:
  ```
  I'm willing to do art.
  ```

  - u/MugaSofer:
    ```
    Excellent. It looks like *The Gothic Man* is winning out vote-wise; you want to PM me about it?
    ```

---

