## [RT] Author Recommendation: Daniel Abraham

### Post:

Daniel Abraham ([website](http://www.danielabraham.com/), [wiki](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Abraham_%28author%29), [goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/author/show/134.Daniel_Abraham)) is an excellent author. I couldn't find any mention of him on this sub, which I found strange. His style is very much "rational fiction" (though not rational*ist*).

His three series:

* [The Long Price Quartet](https://www.goodreads.com/series/43409-long-price-quartet): An original epic fantasy

* [The Expanse](https://www.goodreads.com/series/56399-expanse): Space opera, co-authored by Abraham and Ty Franck under the penname James S. A. Corey

* [The Dagger and the Coin](https://www.goodreads.com/series/53777-the-dagger-and-the-coin): His take on "standard" epic fantasy à la Game of Thrones, Sanderson's Stormlight Archive, etc.

Why is he so great? In a word, I would say his work is *considered*. That applies to his writing style, the worlds he writes about, characters, whatever. It's all been seriously thought through. I find this is far rarer than it should be, and it makes him stand out a lot to me.

This "consideredness" manifests in many ways, but a major one has to be his characters. They're all very human. They have their own worldviews, idiosyncrasies, situations, goals. No one is "evil," everyone has reasons for what they are doing, everyone has their own perspective. Often this creates interesting contrasts, for example where two people are irrevocably on different sides of a conflict yet are very similar and would likely be great friends, or two opposing viewpoints which are both right in their own way.

It's in the details, large and small. His first series, the Long Price Quartet, is very much about ideas: the central thread of the story is about these "andat" which are basically personifications of a particular concept, kind of like a bound spirit or demon, which confer *absolute power over that concept*. As an example, the first book is about one which he calls "Removing-the-part-that-continues" or "Seedless." It's used for removing the seeds from cotton in bulk, resulting in a thriving textiles industry and making the city an economic powerhouse. I see in this (using something so fantastical for something so mundane) a reflection of our world; this sort of thing happens all over the place.

Depicting another world as a way to make people think about our own is, in my opinion, precisely what science fiction and fantasy should be about. Abraham does this everywhere, and without compromising on pacing or plot. A frequent idea is the importance of context or situation. In the Dagger and Coin series, the tyrannical, genocidal, "evil emperor" is a socially awkward young man with self-esteem problems and a weakness for speculative essay. In any other context, he'd be harmless. As it is, he was in the wrong place at the wrong time, and the things that seem to make sense from his perspective have these terrible results.

The variety of perspectives he believably portrays is impressive. The Long Price Quartet follows the same characters through young adulthood to feeble old age, and it was interesting to see how their perspectives changed as time passed. They are different people at the end, but also somehow still the same. It's very well done.

He does high level politics:

>*Caliban's War*, James S. A. Corey, Ch. 28

>Errinwright’s round cheeks fell a millimeter. His brows knotted just a bit. He knew that she knew. Because of course he did. Players at their level didn’t deceive each other. They won even though their opponents knew exactly what was happening.**^1** Just like he was winning against her right now.

>“Are you feeling all right?” he asked. “I think this is the first conversation we’ve had in ten years where you haven’t said something vulgar.”

>Avasarala grinned at the screen, reaching out her fingertips as if she could caress him.
“Cunt,” she said carefully.

Fiat currency and fractional reserve banking:

>*The Widow's House*, Daniel Abraham, Ch. 38

>“This is the greatest fraud in history.”

>“This is a goldmine that will never run dry so long as there is ink,” Cithrin said.

>Lauro’s voice was thin and angry. He was older than Cithrin, and she could see that he knew he was supposed to be outraged without being entirely certain why. “You gave away our money.”

>“I did not,” Cithrin said. “I changed the form of it. From coins and bars to letters that represent them and a royal proclamation that will give those letters the force of law. And exclusive rights to issue those letters in the name of the bank.”

>“You gave our gold to the king,” Lauro said. “We’ll never get the gold back.”

>“Exactly,” Cithrin said. “Neither will anyone else.”

>“But—”

>“Lauro,” Komme said. “Be quiet. You’re out of your depth.”

>“You gained us nothing,” Lauro went on, talking over his father. “So you can write letters against the debt. So what? How does that gain us anything?”

>Cithrin smiled. “We can write letters of transfer totaling more than the debt we’re owed.”

>Lauro opened his mouth, then closed it. “No we can’t,” he said. “The debt’s only a certain size. If you write letters for more than that—”

>“A debt that will never be repaid can be whatever size we say it is,” Cithrin said. “If we choose to put out letters for twice that sum, what difference will it make to the crown? Tracian was never giving up the coin anyway. We all know that. The merchants we’re working with probably know that, but there’s a royal order to pretend otherwise. If we need to pay someone from outside the kingdom, we can buy more gold at discount. Give the seller letters of transfer worth five tenthweights for every four tenthweights they provide. Who wouldn’t take that exchange?”

>“And that makes it fraud,” Komme said. “Without gold—”

>“Gold,” Cithrin said, waving her hand. “What’s gold? A metal too soft to take an edge. There’s no power there. What makes gold important is the story we tell about it. All of humanity has agreed that this particular object has value, and then because we all said so, it does. The metal hasn’t changed. It doesn’t breathe, it doesn’t bleed. It is what it was before. All we’re doing is telling that same story about some letters we’ve written.”

The character Cithrin is pretty obviously inspired by the *House of Niccolo* series by Dorothy Dunnet. There's not a lot in the Dagger and Coin series that hasn't been done before. But it's how he puts the elements together.

Something interesting that I found with the Long Price Quartet was that frequently I would have absolutely no idea what was going to happen, and then in retrospect, it felt like what happened was the only possible outcome. I actually don't remember the last time I've genuinely not been able to predict a story other than this. I found it unpredictable for the same reason that real life is unpredictable: the situations and characters are complex, things depend on complicated interactions between factors, each of which could do any number of things. But things always seem inevitable in retrospect.

In addition to all that, he writes a pretty damn good story. How I would describe it in general is "balanced." Neither action-heavy nor plot- or dialogue-heavy, pacing is solid. Really, I have no complaints.

That said, there are a few caveats:

* The writing quality in the Long Price Quartet (his first series) is not quite up to par at first. It gets noticeably better as the series continues, but starts fairly slow. Because of this, I almost gave up reading it.

* In general, his books do start fairly slow, because you have to get to know the characters. The Expanse series is most guilty of this, as the perspective characters change with each book.

* The third and fourth of the Expanse series are basically the same book. The fourth book could have been skipped entirely and almost nothing would be lost. Disappointing, but hey. The first two are great.

All considered, though: Highly recommended. I hope some of you get some enjoyment from reading this, in my opinion, excellent author.

^1 : This was something I found a bit off about HPMoR. All the "plotting" and such is fun and all, but realistically, if an opponent knows what's going on and you don't, you're going to lose *every time*. This made Harry's actual victory kind of BS, even though it was technically foreshadowed. In any real contest, usually both sides know exactly what is going on. If you're depending on "predicting which level an opponent is playing at," you're doing it wrong.

### Comments:

- u/ulyssessword:
  ```
  >Something interesting that I found with the Long Price Quartet was that frequently I would have absolutely no idea what was going to happen, and then in retrospect, it felt like what happened was the only possible outcome. 

  This.  This was one of the most satisfying and engaging parts of reading his stories.  Another good thing that he does is the exact opposite: I can see a very obvious conflict coming that will end badly for everyone involved...and it does.  The characters don't have as much knowledge as the reader, and their failure to act on things that they can't possibly know is like a train wreck in slow motion.
  ```

  - u/ElGuien:
    ```
    > a train wreck in slow motion.

    Exactly! I was going to use precisely this phrase, but didn't end up finding an elegant way to include what you've said here.

    >I can see a very obvious conflict coming that will end badly for everyone involved...and it does.

    You just *know* that things are going to go terribly. It's great to read.
    ```

- u/jalapeno_dude:
  ```
  The author has also written the Black Sun's Daughter series under the pen name MLN Hanover, which is in a different genre entirely (urban fantasy-ish). I enjoyed them, but I don't think they could really be described as rational.
  ```

- u/Anderkent:
  ```
  I'd second The Dagger and the Coin and The Long Prince Quartet. For The Expanse, YMMV; in large part depending on if you can stomach the main characters rather naive approach to politics and large scale recklessness, and the universe conspiring so that nothing really bad happens when he takes stupid chances.

  Or at least that's what I remember from a couple years ago when I read the first two books.
  ```

- u/None:
  ```
  That's a pretty high recommendation!  It should go on my queue... after the cognition book I'm reading, and *Excession*, and my textbooks...

  >All the "plotting" and such is fun and all, but realistically, if an opponent knows what's going on and you don't, you're going to lose every time. This made Harry's actual victory kind of BS, even though it was technically foreshadowed. In any real contest, usually both sides know exactly what is going on. If you're depending on "predicting which level an opponent is playing at," you're doing it wrong.

  *applause*
  ```

---

