## How we might be able to make rational fiction more popular, and some possible reasons why we should. [BST][D]

### Post:

One thing I think is important to remember, which we all know but sometimes it seems like we can kind of sort of forget it, is that less intelligent people are not strawmen any more than we are; they have their own thoughts, motivations, and patterns of behavior, and they are not always the nincompoops that they sometimes seem to be (and sometimes are). I suspect there are actually a LOT more people out there who are otherwise naturally intelligent but have not learned how to use their intelligence effectively, and fall into the mental traps that our community tries to avoid, making them effectively less intelligent, even though they have the potential to think and act more intelligently.

I also suspect that it is partially a confidence problem. Maybe some people go through school and succeed, and because of that they attain the belief that they are smart, while others do poorly in school and attain the belief that they are not smart. Maybe the people who think they are smart also try more to be intelligent, and practice and practice and practice to hone their cognitive skills, while the people who don't think they are smart give up much earlier. Maybe this might create a larger gap in cognitive skills between people of higher and lower natural intelligence than there otherwise would be.

I recently had a conversation with one of my close friends and his mother, who are nowhere near as intellectual as I am, and I was trying to help this friend with an identity crisis he was having along with a bunch of emotional issues caused by his difficult past. While what I could do was rather limited since I don't have training in psychological therapy, I did suggest to him that maybe one thing he should try was, "treat all of that psychological baggage like a cognitive bias, and *look* at yourself, at your thoughts, emotions, motivations and patterns of behavior, and ask yourself, what would it all look like to you if you saw yourself from the outside? Disregarding all the stereotypes, and all the judgements and all the emotional crap you went through, what does it actually look like?"

His mother's immediate response to this was to say that while people like me could do that, people like them just weren't smart enough. But I suspect that they COULD do it, if they practiced the skill enough, and had others who could help them learn it.

I suspect that rational fiction as a genre is obscure because most people don't like thinking really deeply or all that much for fun. Oftentimes because they're not that good at it (or they think they're not). However, even intellectuals don't necessarily like to think deeply for fun. My mother, who's a psychiatrist and IS technically good at thinking, only enjoys it as part of her work as a psychiatrist. She spends all day using her intellect to help people at work, but as soon as she gets home, or really when she's anywhere other than at her office with a patient, she doesn't want to think deeply or very much at all. This is probably in large part because of a chronic sleep problem she has.

But back to the main point, I think we could make rational fiction more popular if we made it more accessible. Not by toning down the intelligence of our stories, but rather the difficulty of the subject matters.

One idea that's been in my head for a while is to write a story about someone who at the start is really irrational and gradually becomes more and more rational over the course of the story. I considered making this an autobiographical novel, but I'm worried that my memory is not good enough to write it, and that it would be filled with inaccuracies and continuity mistakes.

Increasing the popularity of rational fiction is important to me because in other genres, intelligence is too often misrepresented as not being useful for anything except giving cool gadgets to the REAL heroes of the story, and actually intelligent characters are WAY too often relegated to being the sidekick or the villain, if they're even included at all. When an "intelligent" character IS the hero, they seem to pretty much always be a strawman, who's only considered intelligent because they have glasses, speak incomprehensible technobabble or have a PhD, and NOT because they're actually shown to USE their intelligence to make intelligent decisions and solve problems. I'm not sure what the actual consequences of this misrepresentation might be. I'm not sure whether people see intellectuals this way because that's how we're commonly portrayed, or we're commonly portrayed this way because that's how people see us, or both. I'm not sure what effect this misrepresentation of intelligence has on life outcomes if any, but if it has any effect,  I suspect it makes people even less likely to want to develop and use their own intellects.

Thoughts?

### Comments:

- u/IomKg:
  ```
  When you write "rational fiction" do you mean rationalist? because rational fiction in itself should not be something people will avoid.
  In a lot of ways rational fiction is just fiction where the author needed to do more heavy lifting in the background.
  There are some things which people like in regular fiction that I suppose will not be possible, or at least not reasonably so, in rational fiction. But otherwise there is nothing particular in rational fiction that will make it more difficult for the reader.

  Any difficulties i can think of at least are essentially just styles that writers use which might distance "casual" readers, rather then inherent hurdles to rational fiction in getting ration fiction read more..

  If you mean rationalist fiction specifically then I think it will be fairly difficult to keep rationalist fiction both generally accessible and interesting, because one of the aspects of it is teaching, and in teaching. So the best that could be done would be a story which is interesting as a rationalist fiction for people who have less background, but for people that already know the principles etc. it will just fallback into "regular" rational fiction..
  Though that would be difficult in my opinion and most writers will have hard time pulling that off, so i think it would work better if writers will target the demographics seperately..
  ```

---

