## [BST]Manipulate this setting, please?

### Post:

Everyone can summon a single familiar, but you do not get to choose. Roughly 96% summon either earthy creatures that appear naturally, or earthly creatures that don't (pegasi, gryphons, etc.). Neither of these have any truly abnormal properties, though there is some degree of physical impossibility for the second list, it's not extreme. All these familiars are mindless, and completely obedient.

The last 4% are not. These are thinking creatures from mythology, pulled up or down for reasonable fairness. The ritual favors, but isn't exclusively, creatures from greek and european mythology in this area. These have no loyalty to their master save self-serving loyalty. They know roughly 95% of what you know, and 5% is replaced with stuff you could have learned but didn't. (Usually, the rarer the information, the more likely it's shared between you- this last 5% is mostly trivial.)

The second type, let's call them youkai for lack of a better grouping, break physics at times. They demonstrate impossible strength, speed and durability, and energy projectiles refered to as magic. In addition, you can kill one solely by attacking a hand persistently enough, or fail to kill one by a blow that should chop off their head- while damage is more effective some places than others, harm is distributed through the body. For some, the blow just stops, and for others the head reattaches itself, or regrows, or the blade passes through but the head stays put. some have other abilities, but very few have significant ones that realy change the setting. A finite number of duplicates, an ability to manipulate blizzards, minor super-hero powers, really, almost exclusively secondary. All youkai look vaugely human, if not more than vaugely, but have inhuman traits. Almost all can communicate verbaly. No youkai has an inherent love for their master, though they may develop a bond.

There is a liquid they are especially vulnerable to, so humans might be able to beat them in a fight, with an ambush or sufficient numbers. 

Of course, humanity does have one real point of leverage against them. Either type of familiar can be revived from the dead, restored to full health, and relocated to the ritual's location, using three seperate rituals. It's worth noting that when you kill it and eat the body, the ritual still works, and the nutrition is not lost. Apparently, a new body is formed out of nothing. These rituals do require materials (common gemstones [quartz and other minor gems] or certain plants, traditionally, though other sustitutes do exist.), so it's not a free unlimited food hack, but it is an additional way to get food.

Youkai persist past their creator's death. Youkai don't want to die, but may not desire immortality either, just like some humans want to die eventually but not today.

How do you abuse this? What loopholes can you see? How would you utilize this setup? What differences would it make in a low-tech society?

### Comments:

- u/Nepene:
  ```
  Can you desummon familiars?

  How does one summon a familiar? Where can you summon it? How often can you summon it.

  I imagine almost everyone would be forced to summon their familiar in a secure setting for the first time, to eliminate psychopaths.
  ```

- u/pedanterrific:
  ```
  Tech/magic level? Do humans have anything more effective than spears and crossbows, do they have fireball mages?

  >They demonstrate impossible strength, speed and durability, and energy projectiles refered to as magic. In addition, you can kill one solely by attacking a hand, or fail to kill one by a blow that should chop off their head.

  I'm assuming the second one describes them functioning on an HP system? Anyway, this list is quite sufficient to overcome essentially arbitrary numbers of normal humans.

  >There is a liquid they are especially vulnerable to, so humans might be able to beat them in a fight, with an ambush or sufficient numbers.

  Unless this liquid is ubiquitous on the level of *water*, it seems like it would be absurdly costly to stop the youkai from doing whatever they want. If one in twenty-five people can summon a superbeing that requires a specialized military response to stop, all small villages are ruled by youkai.

  Probably this means that all familiar-summonings are conducted under a vat of anti-youkai liquid, and the unlucky people just go without a familiar from then on.

  >Of course, humanity does have one real point of leverage against them. Either type of familiar can be [...] relocated to the ritual's location. [...] These rituals do require materials (common gemstones [quartz and other minor gems] or certain plants, traditionally, though other sustitutes do exist.

  Is there any way for the youkai to prevent that one? Does it need material components of their body, or the presence/participation of their summoner? What happens to a youkai when their summoner dies?
  ```

---

