## [RT][HF] The Runelords

### Post:

In the *Runelords* series ([Goodreads](https://www.goodreads.com/series/41322), [TV Tropes](http://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Literature/TheRunelords)), the main form of magic is "endowments": With the aid of branding irons made of a special metal found in ancient battlegrounds ("forcibles") and accompanying rituals, a *willing* person ("dedicate") can grant to another person (an "endowed") his store of a particular attribute (an "endowment"). An endowment breaks only on the death of the endowed or of the dedicate: When the endowed dies, the dedicate gets the endowed attribute back; when the dedicate dies, the endowed loses the attribute. A person can give only one endowment in his life, but may receive many.

A person with many endowments is called a "Runelord": his subjects give him a certain number of willing dedicates per year, and in return he protects them (and the dedicates, who may require constant care, depending on which attributes they gave) with his superhuman powers. Not all endowments are given to Runelords, though: a pretty peasant girl might sell her Glamour to an noblewoman for some gold, for example. Different endowments require differently-runed forcibles: you can't transfer an attribute if you don't know the relevant rune, which may not even exist. Endowments are all or nothing--a dedicate of Voice becomes mute, a dedicate of Grace becomes as stiff as a board (but still conscious!), a dedicate of Mind falls into a coma, etc. Endowments are occasionally given to or taken from animals--it's rumored that, in olden days, people used to take endowments from wolves (and also took on some mental characteristics from those wolves in the process...), and in the time of the book "force-horses" with enhanced strength and stamina are used, though they're nigh-impossible to control for anyone but a Runelord.

It's been quite a few years since I read the original quadrilogy (there may be some mistakes in the above summary)--and I don't think I've read more than a few pages of the rest of the series, which switches focus from endowments to deities, IIRC--but I think the first four books at least might qualify for being rational. Interesting things of all sorts are done with endowments; for example:

* It's specifically noted that endowments of Strength are useless without corresponding endowments of Endurance, since someone with super-strong muscles will only break all his bones if he tries to do anything with his super-strength.

* The villain of the first two books--Raj Ahten of Indhopal, nicknamed "The Sum of All Men"--has about a zillion endowments. However, a person receiving an endowment must be physically in the presence of the new dedicate, since the branding-iron ritual is essential to the transmittal of the endowment. But Raj Ahten still wants to receive new endowments from his adoring populace in the southwestern part of the map while he's out conquering in the north. So, [spoiler](#s "he funnels them through subordinates. For example, some person might have a hundred endowments of Voice, but he's also a dedicate of Voice to Raj Ahten, so Raj Ahten is the one who actually gets all the endowments while the subordinate stays at home and accumulates more Voice that gets instantly transmitted to Raj Ahten. Of course, this is a dangerous chokepoint for people who want to deprive him of endowments...")

* When a Runelord with endowments of Mind is killed, [spoiler](#s "his dedicates of Mind are left with fragments of his memory when they wake up from their comas--so, by talking among themselves, they can piece together important things he found out just before he died.")

* Endowments of Metabolism typically aren't used except in the direst of circumstances--the candle that burns twice as hot burns twice as fast. However, [spoiler](#s "endowments of Metabolism can be chained together in a circle to make a more flexible and less life-destroying version of the enhancement.") In similar fashion, [spoiler](#s "circular endowments of Mind allow multiple people to share perception, like Nagato's Paths of Pain in Naruto.")

* Raj Ahten--he of the zillion endowments--accidentally discovers that he can combine his prodigious Voice, Strength, and Endurance to [spoiler](#s "bring down castle walls with resonant vibrations by shouting at a particular frequency.") Likewise, the favorite of his many wives has such a ridiculous number of Voice and Glamour endowments that [spoiler](#s "she temporarily stops a gigantic battle between humans and a horde of *insectile* enemies merely by singing.")

There's some philosophical waffling about how allowable it is to kill helpless, blameless dedicates in order to bring down the Runelords they're enhancing. Other forms of magic, separate from endowments, exist as well--for example, there are "flameweavers", who can manipulate fire after pledging themselves to the deity of fire, as well as other gods and spirits.

---

(Repost from [over a year ago](http://www.timeanddate.com/date/durationresult.html?m1=10&d1=26&y1=2014&m2=11&d2=16&y2=2015); previous discussion [here](http://np.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/2ket47/rthfrunelords/).)

### Comments:

---

