## [META] [D] Thoughts on a "___day Writings Thread"?

### Post:

It seems likely to me that we probably have a lot more creators in this sub than the frequency of front-page posts would suggest. I hypothesize that there are things being created that there is an audience for but that, for whatever reason, are not getting posted.

I have some assumptions about why this might be:

* People do not feel comfortable submitting work they may not be confident of, or that was comparatively low effort.

* People do not want to displace other content that they may feel is more established or better written.

* People do not wish to link to their own work if it has low levels of historic engagement, especially if other content is more popular.

* People are shy.

An informal weekly thread, where you can share things you've written or found that you might not want to post to the front page, could perhaps help with this. This would be different to the Monday General Rationality Thread, which is not frequently used to advertise works.

In my mind, this thread would have slightly more lax rules about posting. I expect you could post collections of what you've written in the week, works in progress or less strictly rational content as long as it still appeals to the rational mind. Because it would consist more of shorter, complete works recently written by the poster, I also imagine it could engage more back and forth about the ideas than a typical front page post would.

I'm curious about others' thoughts on this idea.

### Comments:

- u/GaBeRockKing:
  ```
  I think it would be a generally valuable plan. And if it isn't, it's not exactly high cost to implement, and then later remove.
  ```

- u/Roxolan:
  ```
  I don't think I would be interested in reading snippets of lower average quality. But hey, I might discover I was wrong. I agree with GaBeRockKing that the experiment is worth the very low cost.
  ```

- u/alexanderwales:
  ```
  [Something like this?](https://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/2o5hpp/rrational_daydreams_and_doodles_thread_all_the/)
  ```

  - u/Veedrac:
    ```
    Kind'a, but with more emphasis on works than ideas.

    That post seemed fairly successful, I'm surprised it wasn't rerun.
    ```

---

