## Life is But a Dream (Of All Possible Worlds fan-sequel thing)

### Post:

So I recently listened to "Of All Possible Worlds" by the guy who makes the HPMOR podcast, and was inspired to write a fanfic of it. Basically I'm treating his short story as the first chapter, and mine as the second chapter. Anyone is welcome to write a third. Do not read this until you have read/listened to "Of All Possible Worlds" [here](http://www.hpmorpodcast.com/wp-content/uploads/episodes/MOR_all_possible.mp3) or in the place it was published in print (don't remember what it's called) because there are heavy spoilers for "Of All Possible Worlds" below.

**Life is But a Dream**

*"Only delayed. God cannot sleep forever. Why prolong this hateful...hateful..."*

I woke up back in my bed in the slave quarters. I was still dreaming. The world I had somehow created in my mind had not disappeared. That was good.

My thoughts were a jumble. I stumbled out of bed and put on my clothes, or rather the dirty rags that passed for clothes. Then I went about my morning tasks for my master Grokkus. As I worked, my thoughts began to clear. If this whole world existed in my mind, could I influence it with my thoughts somehow? Make things happen that I wanted to happen? As a test, I closed my eyes and imagined a ripe fruit to eat. I tried to will it into existence. I opened my eyes. Instead of a fruit, I got a small dark figurine shaped like the monster that the old barbarian wizard had summoned (was going to summon?) in the coliseum. I threw it to the ground in disgust. Clearly my mind was elsewhere. But then I picked it back up again. I knew that I might need it later.

When I was done with my daily tasks, I went to visit Aurelius at the Temple of Somnus. I needed his help.

"Aurelius?"

"Marad?"

"I need your help."

"Anything for you. Within reason of course."

"I need to know how to intentionally influence my dreams."

"Why do you need to know that? That skill is only taught to priests of Somnus."

"Please, Aurelius it's important!"

"The nightmares have been plaguing everyone in the city. I am sorry to say that there is not much I can do to help. Even if you were taught how to influence your dreams, it would not eliminate the miasma. You would just replace your nightmare with another nightmare."

"In that case, how can the miasma be eliminated?"

"I do not know." Aurelius gave me a look that was so gentle and filled with compassion that I wrenched my eyes away. I didn't want his pity.

"You don't understand," I muttered.

Aurelius cocked his head. "What don't I understand?"

I opened my mouth. Then closed it. Then I opened my mouth again. This was hard. I was a God dammit! I should have just come out and said it! No one could really harm me. Not really.

That was a lie. They could harm me. I had been beaten and taken advantage of many times. That awful man Tidus had...had raped me countless times. And I had been powerless. Even if I had known that I was dreaming, I couldn't afford to wake up. Not if doing so would destroy mankind.

"I...have experienced the past few days three times before," I mumbled.

"What?"

"I have experienced the past few days three times before," I said louder, my voice weary and broken.

Aurelius looked around to see if anyone was listening, and then pulled me into his private chambers.

"Explain," he demanded.

"I...I..." I swallowed. Tears began to form in my eyes, and I wiped them away, ashamed of myself.

"Marad!?" Aurelius suddenly looked alarmed.  He wrapped his arms around me and rubbed circles on my back soothingly.

"Everything's a mess," I said. "And it's all my fault."

"Have they found out? About *us*?" Aurelius whispered, frightened.

"No. Worse than that," I said. "I found out about *myself*."

"I don't understand."

"Aurelius," I said. "I have experienced the past few days three times already. And this morning I created a small figurine out of thin air without a spell circle, even though I have no magic training. Although I meant to make it a piece of fruit."

I pulled the figurine out of my pocket, and Aurelius's eyes widened in horror at the sight of it. He snatched it out of my hands, stepped away from me, threw the figurine into the ground and stomped on it. Shadows which emanated suffering and despair broke free of the broken figurine and dissipated.

"That trinket was overflowing with dark magic! Where did you get it?"

"I made it. It was an accident, I swear!"

"That kind of device isn't made by accident," Aurelius growled.

"It *was* an accident! I was trying to make a piece of fruit!"

"And you just expect me to believe you?" Aurelius said, the hurt and betrayal clear in his voice.

"You did the last time! When I came to you for guidance, and I asked you how to tell if I'm awake or dreaming, and you said that if I had to ask that then I must be dreaming!"

"I do not remember such a conversation," said Aurelius, suspiciously.

"Please, you have to trust me!"

I desperately willed for my love to understand.

Aurelius's eyes widened in shock as the core of my consciousness, the part of me that was present in this particular situation, instinctually reached out and caressed his mind and spirit gently.

*Please*, I silently begged him. *Please understand*.

Aurelius swore. "Dammit Marad! Dammit, *Lord Somnus*! Do you realize what you are asking of me?"

"Um..."

"You expect a low-ranking priest like me to teach you how to...well, how to be *you*? I cannot do this! It is too much! I cannot endure that much responsibility on my own!"

I grasped Aurelius's face in my hands and kissed him hard.

"Neither can I," I whispered.

Aurelius swallowed. "That scares me more than anything," he said.

We made love again that evening, and in the morning the miasma was still there. I had less than three days until the awakening ritual would be attempted once more.

ZZZZZZZ

Author's note: I only listened to the original story once, so please let me know if I made any continuity errors.

Something interesting to note is that the Roman God of Sleep, Somnus,is supposed to have had a lot of children, all of them produced via parthenogenesis, meaning that they were born without fertilization. This coincidentally seems like an ideal way for a gay God to have children. I probably won't be continuing this. If anyone else wants to write a third chapter (or more), feel free. In fact somebody please continue this, there are not enough rational or near-rational stories which feature gay protagonists. I've only ever seen two of them besides my own story 5000 PE, and both are short stories.

Let me know what you think!

### Comments:

---

