## Jakeb89 reads The Good Student (12)

### Post:

**Chapter 12**

>*The teaching methods here were different from what Nic was used to. The teachers each had their own approach and personality, some were strict and aggressive, forcing knowledge into the students like corn down a goose’s gullet, others were more relaxed and conversational, trying to instil a sense of wonder and excitement (which was quite ambitious when you were teaching Economic Analysis).*

Hah, sounds a bit like the school I went off to for 11th and 12th grade, honestly. I've never been a fan of rote memorization, so I always got along with the later type much better.

---

>*Nic observed closely whenever questions were asked, using his own extensive understanding of each subject to judge the students’ responses. And from that, he was able to predict what any upcoming test would be on, down to the exact question.*

>*This made revising much more efficient. He would tell the others what they needed to know, specifically, and they would focus solely on that. At first, they were dubious about limiting their studies to such a narrow range, but when they faced those exact questions in the test, it quickly became apparent Nic somehow knew what to expect.*

>*He did try to explain how he was able to do this when they asked, but while the general idea was easy enough to grasp, when they tried to observe the teachers in action, neither their questions or the students’ answers revealed anything to them. But they were happy to continue taking Nic’s advice on faith.*

Eugh... this brings back my own memories, good and bad, of test taking. This is clever, but I foresee it biting them in the ass. Whether that's because the teachers catch on and change their approach to test question creation, or (like in my case) it makes them excellent test takers while actually robbing them of some of their study skills.

---

>*If this was how teachers at Ransom had been taught to teach, it made Nic curious how the masters at the Royal College functioned. He had no interest in becoming a mage, but he’d like to see how mages were trained.*

And Nic's combined interest in higher studies (including magic) continue, his lack of interest in actually learning magic follows it. I'm not sure if I'm being set up for a shift in perspective when he changes his mind about learning magic, or if this is leading into him being in a weird position of *studying* magic while completely skipping *practicing* it. 

Actually, that sounds rather novel. Nic being 100% magical theory and 0% application would set up him to be an excellent partner to someone who's approach is the opposit- Wait, Simole maybe? Now that would be neato.

---

>*It made him question his reasons for coming to Ransom in the first place. What had he hoped to get from Dizzy? Just friendship? It didn’t really matter what she felt for him, it was impossible for her to reciprocate his feelings. He knew that, but he’d come anyway. It was incredibly unfair of him to put her in such a position. Luckily, it posed no dilemma for her. She had made that abundantly clear.*

Pffft, yeah, sure. I'm pretty socially inept myself and it's blindingly obvious that it's nowhere near that cut and dry for Dizzy, even discounting anything I've seen outside of Nic's PoV.

---

>*“There weren’t any left,” he said, once he’d confirmed that he indeed did not have a herbal detector in his hands.*

You know, I don't think I've been made aware of the actual size of these things. Is it snowglobe-sized? The size of a desktop tower? Shoebox? It certainly seems like they're either bulky or heavy enough that you can't really hold something else in your hands along with them.

---

>*“Here.” She took off the detector hanging from her shoulder, her personal device that was far better than the school provided ones, and handed it to him. “Don’t break it.”*

>*He took it and hoped lightning wouldn’t strike twice.*

Don't point it at the demon/magic-building, and don't drop it. Got it.

Also... gonna go with shoe-box size, although it's possible that one's smaller than most if its higher quality.

---

>*“That’s not fair,” said Fanny. “You’ve got a better one than us.”*

Oh my god Fanny, do not start this. It's bad enough with the students complaining about Also-Rans having gotten extracurricular instruction time.

---

>*Nic got down on his knees and listened intently. He shuffled along until he saw it, a tiny plant with a purple and yellow closed bud, crawling through the grass. Now he just had to entice it into his glass jar. He couldn’t touch it without damaging it, but he knew a dozen capturing techniques. He’d just never tried any of them before.*

Okay, I know it said earlier that they were trying to catch these things, but somehow it didn't quite sink in that they are mobile plants. There's something simultaneously wonderous and ever so slightly unsettling about mobile plants.

---

>*There was a splash and a distressed shout. Some boys appeared from over by the pond, the one next to the cottage. They looked pleased with themselves and suspicious. They glanced over at the students in the meadow, and hurried away. He didn’t recognise any of them; they looked older.*

Really? : /

---

>*It became obvious why he’d been having so much trouble getting out of a shallow pond. Both his arms were broken.*

OH FOR FUCKS SAKE. Jesus, that's bordering on attempted murder.

---

>*“I don’t know,” said Nic. “Some second years, I think.” He looked down at Mallory who was now shivering uncontrollably. He turned back to Simole. “You said you knew attack and defence. Does that include healing?”*

Oh that's conven-.. Wait, no! DON'T REMOVE THE EVIDENCE! This is why you get photos immediately after any kind of crime.

---

>*“Okay,” said Simole. “Anything else?”*

Never change, Simole.

---

>*With the greatest of effort, Nic was able to glance left. He saw Davo’s head planted into the short grass. He couldn’t see Fanny, but no doubt he was on Davo’s other side in the same position. Very slowly, Nic shifted his gaze to the right. Simole was bowed beside him. So even she was under the mage’s power.*

>*The pupil in her white eye swivelled to meet his. She winked.*

I was expecting Simole to just be standing there, buffing her fingernails. This is far better.

---

>*The mage looked surprised, and then deeply offended. He raised his hand again. There was a sharp crack and he grunted as his wrist went limp. It hung useless. His eyes widened and then tightened into dark holes of rage. He lifted the other hand and another crack left it in the same condition. Simole hadn’t moved.*

Certified. Badass. Stop while you're ahead, dude. Er, while you're behind? While you're not dead, let's go with that.

---

>*Simole stood up. “Hand gestures and spoken spells will be your undoing, Ferityn.” She spoke calmly, without rancour.*

Ah, the tried and true "Wordless, wandless magic is hax."

---

>*“Feshi… Farrr…” He struggled to speak without teeth, but would not stop trying. “Feridee…”*

*sigh*. 

---

>*“Master of Arcanum, you may be,” said Mr Tenner, “but not of politics. There are many who are above the law, and she is one of them. You, however, are not.” He was quite stern now, his earlier demeanour gone. “You endangered the lives of many children today, and you will be held accountable. Now yield to these men.”*

The most dangerous man is not he who is powerful, but he who is both powerful *and* knows his limits.

---

>*A dreadful chill ran through him. All this time he had been consumed by the idea that no matter what he achieved, how high he rose, he would never be able to reach her. He would never be good enough in her eyes or anyone else’s. But now a far more distressing reality occurred to him. What if it was she who was not good enough for him?*

It's always a sad thing when someone you idolize first truely fails to meet your expectations. I hope that in time Nic and Dizzy can be friends or even good natured rivals, but it was probably good for that pedestal he had her on to get removed sooner rather than later.

---

>*He intended to rise so far above them all, he would never be within their reach. Any of them.*

Careful there, Mr. Riddle. Ambition can be a very sharp blade. Be sure you don't cut yourself on it.

---

**Summary**

Well then. Also-rans continue to be discriminated against, and even physically attacked in this case, and Simole continues to demonstrate why you don't fuck with her. 

I do have to wonder if they're going to go with a standard procedure for which question to skip. I hope it's done in such a way to be obvious to the teachers that they're doing it, but that's probably just me being a shit-stirrer.

### Comments:

- u/traverseda:
  ```
  Hey, take a look at the subreddit rules, in particular

  > *Post your own work at most weekly.

  Maybe do a weekly round-up?
  ```

  - u/jakeb89:
    ```
    You know, I read the rules but didn't think that a write-up would count as 'my work.'

    Not sure I have the patience to wait a week to read a few more chapters, so I'll probably just end up binging it then. : P

    Oh well. Sorry for breaking the rules; thought I'd read them closely enough, but I guess I hadn't.
    ```

    - u/traverseda:
      ```
      I am not a mod, this is not mod advice.
      ```

      - u/sparkc:
        ```
        I think these types of threads have value but one per chapter feels excessive, as does more than one thread a week honestly, given this subs level of traffic.
        ```

    - u/Makin-:
      ```
      > Not sure I have the patience to wait a week to read a few more chapters

      This makes no sense to me, couldn't you just write it down on a private text document and upload it when it's done?
      ```

---

