## Dynasty's Ghost Chapters 4 - 7; Rebels Can't Go Home Chapters 1 - 11; Extra Recommendation

### Post:

So this is a bit of a grab bag. [*Dynasty's Ghost*](https://www.royalroadl.com/fiction/19159/dynastys-ghost), the web fiction I mentioned two weeks ago, is proceeding apace, and, taking advantage of how far ahead I worked on that piece, I've begun a second web fiction on r/HFY called [*Rebels Can't Go Home*](https://www.reddit.com/r/HFY/comments/8yvx4a/rebels_cant_go_home/), which features a hunter-gatherer teaming up with an expeditionary force that came from the stars. I also wanted to continue the pattern I set up last time, and suggest a rational-relevant web fiction I had absolutely nothing to do with. Consider [*Conquest*](http://www.stardestroyer.net/Empire/Fanfic/Conquest/index.html), a Star Wars/Star Trek crossover that explores differences between those universes at some length.

Finally, to make this post more applicable to r/rational, I had a bit of fun writing some discussion questions for posted chapters of *Dynasty's Ghost* that involve analysis of character choices. Reading them (under the spoilers) might make the web fiction more interesting.

>!Questions! !<

>!Prologue!<

>!\-What information about the snake person should have been sufficient to cause Ormin to abandon his quest?!<

>!Chapter 1!<

>!\-Based on the information Mai had before Varsis arrived, how appropriate is her reaction to events inside and around the Palace? What might have been a good alternate strategy? !<

>!\-How strong is the case that Varsis is a traitor?!<

>!Chapter 2!<

>!\-Using information presented in the story, was Broken right to make the pledge? !<

>!\-Using information presented in the story, was Broken right to continue to withhold information about his background?!<

>!Chapter 3!<

>!\-If you were Salko, how would you have handled the refugees?!<

>!\-Is Varsis actually upset about Graven? Is this important?!<

>!Chapter 4!<

>!\-What evidence does Mai have to be suspicious of Broken? How good is her case?!<

>!\-Devin did not seem interested in ransoming Mai. Assuming the impression he is giving is accurate, is he right to have this opinion?!<

>!Chapter 5!<

>!\-Why did Broken disclose Mai’s identity?!<

>!\-Should Mai have tried to escape, or side with the thieves over Broken?!<

>!Chapter 6!<

>!\-If you were a leader in Gansu, would you advocate for pledging allegiance to the pretender Ehajdon?!<

>!\-Should Mai trust the Minsu?!<

>!Chapter 7!<

>!\-How well does it seem Broken and Moonsinger Fen know each other?!<

>!\-Lin and Varsis made a similar choice regarding one of the main characters. In what circumstances do you think they might have made different choices?!<

### Comments:

---

