## Started reading The Gods Are Bastards - review Books 9 & 10

### Post:

I'm still really enjoying TGAB!

I especially liked Khadizroth the Green’s moral/philosophical/psychological/scientific lesson on the limits of perception when he was trying to expose to Shook the flaws in his misogynistic reasoning. It definitely showed K’s charisma, especially in contrast to Shook.

I was pretty doubtful of putting Prin into the Legions at first, since I thought it was a poor fit for her character and a waste of her skills, but her adventures there are lots of fun to read about. I sort expected her to just be dropped off into the Legions as a way of keeping her on the back burner, and if the story did follow her, I expected it to be mostly accounts of her being miserable and not fitting in, but fortunately, I was completely wrong.	

I feel bad for Vadrieny, since she has to spend most of her time trapped inside Teal’s body. I wonder if they have a time-sharing arrangement? From what I’ve read, it seems like they’re Teal virtually all the time, unless Vadrieny needs to come out for a specific purpose. That doesn’t seem very fair to me. I hope it’s not a cause for conflict later. 

Regarding the behavior of the sophomores in Veilgrad in Book 9 (well mostly Trissany), I have to say, I disapproved of their methods. They were rude as hell and just searched through people’s shit left and right without permission, and generally made asses of themselves. I get that part of that is Adventuring Tradition, but I feel like they could have accomplished the same thing with a great deal more tact and subtlety. I was pleased to learn more about Trissany’s Hand of Avei instincts as a partial explanation for her behavior in that regard, but the rest of the group didn’t have much of an excuse.

The author’s complaints about his personal life are perhaps a good way to bond with audience at the time (or encourage people to donate), but they’re tiresome to read years later, especially when those issues dominate the discussion.

I really didn’t like Professor Kasia at first, finding her a bit too cliché, but she really grew on me after a while, especially after the chapter from her perspective (10-11) when she tracks the Black Wreath.

I wasn’t a huge fan of the reveal about the nature of the Elder Gods, because I feel like it cheapens the gravitas and meaningfulness of the fantasy setting and the nature of the gods, but I’m intending to keep an open mind about it and see where the story goes. I do think it’s pretty funny that my whimsical [prediction](https://www.reddit.com/r/rational/comments/91p1y8/started_reading_the_gods_are_bastards_initial/e30o9ke/) actually seems to have come true in a way:
>...the twists can be a bit too unpredictable. For example, if it were revealed that Arachne was an alien wearing an elf mask who had been arranging events the whole time...

I find it a bit weird that apparently none of Ingvar’s party noticed any connection between the spider webs, Arachne, and Araneid, but I suppose it’s possible that their world lacks the etymological and entomological associations we are aware of that make those connections obvious.

I was particularly impressed by how deftly Izara handled her appearance at the end of Justinian’s sermon. She agreed with him on every point he made to the congregation while simultaneously undermining his entire campaign against UU and Arachne entirely. Everything she did and said showed perfect solidarity with her archpope but to anyone clever paying attention it was a huge smackdown. 

Unrelated thought, but it just occurred to me that Teal’s note from Vesk hasn’t reappeared yet. Hopefully it makes a comeback, because Ekoi’s suggestion to open it in Arachne’s presence sounds like it would make a hilarious scene.

I really enjoyed the bonus chapters with Tazun and the Eserite slave, but I found the Grey Cleric’s reasoning in defense to be specious and hypocritical. Her argument is basically that there’s nothing the queen can do about it, and punishing the ones involved won’t reduce it, just drive it underground:
>Her Majesty tolerates this trade only because she is not yet able to extinguish the demand for human slaves. And so long as that demand exists, the desperate and greedy will rise to meet it. Destroying the existing traffickers would force their heirs into hiding without ending the practice itself... If banned outright, it will change into secretive abduction without oversight or recourse.

Yet moments later, she claims the queen supports the Eserites’ tactics when they are exerting exactly the same kind of pressure she just claimed would be ineffective:
>And from the perspective of her Majesty’s aims, Nahil’s ploy is an excellent one. By using the Thieves’ Guild to directly attack the purchasers of human slaves, in a way against which they have no defense or recourse, she attacks the market itself. Without that market, the marketers will vanish without having to be leaned upon. It is cunning, elegant, and if successful, for the good of all.
If the Eserites punishing slave owners reduces demand, then legal measures punishing slave owners would also reduce demand.

Furthermore, as Tazun pointed out, the main draw of slave ownership was the “great prestige” and “social advancement” it entailed. If slavery were outlawed, slave ownership would no longer confer prestige or social advancement- instead it would be evidence of a crime. And it’s not a firmly entrenched, fundamental aspect of their culture either; as she explains, slavery “has enjoyed a startling renaissance since the Imperial Treaty, after having been all but unused for centuries.” So it’s complete BS that the government can’t effectively fight slavery and Tazun is a fool for allowing her to persuade him of this.
***
Questions:

- Are Guild tags ever reused after the death of the original owners? Seems like they’d run out of good ones after a while otherwise. Surely “Tricks” would have been taken. Will it be explained how the tags are issued?
- Are Butlers’ nature and origins eventually explained?
- Are there any maps available? What about fan art (aside from the 3 pieces linked in the Gallery section)?
- How does Rowena’s Rescue compare to TGAB?
- What exactly is Ruda studying at UU? She can’t do magic but most of their classes are about magic. I know that the main goal of UU is to eradicate stupidity and I know there are a mundane combat class and a history class, but for the most part, things seem magically focused. 
- Has anyone made D&D character sheets for any of the characters in TGAB? 



### Comments:

- u/Mountebank:
  ```
  I'd image UU has a management and governance course considering that they have nobles in attendance. That's probably what Ruda is studying. They probably have economics, civics, and ethics as well, just like a normal school.
  ```

- u/sicutumbo:
  ```
  Guild tags are issued by the person who promotes the initiate from apprentice to full member. I imagine they're not unique, but I don't believe it's mentioned.

  Butlers are not explained as of yet. 

  The author somewhat recently talked about making a map, but I think it's not a priority right now because he recently moved across the country, and is handling a few other projects.

  Not sure about the other questions, sorry.
  ```

---

