## [RT][WIP][DC] [NSFW] Hall's Harem webtoon style comic by Gao/Warren

### Post:

I'm putting myself out here a bit by sharing this, but here goes. (Also there really needs to be a flair for NSFW content. Fingers crossed I don't get banned) This is for anyone who wants something in the same vein as The Erogamer now that it's ended (nowhere near the same level, but in the same genre at least (sort of)).

Tw: death, sex, hell, and others that would be spoilers, but if you don't like things that push the boundaries of what exactly "consent" entails you might want to skip this one

[Hell's Harem](https://www.lezhin.com/en/comic/hellsharem)

A fairly new story, only started a few months ago.

A Korean man named Han with a *legendary* devotion to his porn collection installs a **commercial grade server stack** to house and run his collection and promptly electrocutes himself. He gets picked up by a reaper, but his time of death is missing from his file, which throws the afterlife into an uproar. They can't resurrect him, because No Body Could Have Survived That **(tm)**, but he doesn't want to get sent to the hells for breaking so many of the underworld's archaic, outdated laws while he was alive. As a compromise, he has to serve a sentence of a full year at a special underworld hotel.

Here's (some of) the NSFW: every (real) person whose image he has masturbated to (108 in total) gets soul-copied from the moment said image was captured, and for every time he masturbated to their image, he has to have sex with them.

Here's where it gets ***Rational***. They are all staying in the hotel with him *at the same time*. Some of these women have "quotas" of over a **hundred**. The women all come from different years, from early 2000s to late 2010s, so they have no knowledge of any event that took place *after* the image was taken. Some of them "know" each other (from both being in the porn industry) but are from different points in time. Some are just from random magazine articles or cover photos that Han "liked". Some are foreigners who normally wouldn't be able to communicate, but the afterlife has taken care of that by making everyone able to read and speak "Korean" as if it was their original language (I read it translated into English so meh).

As an incentive, the administrator of the hotel offers any woman that completes her quota in the given time frame will be allowed to go back to ANY time period during her life with **full knowledge of everything that happened in the hotel**. Women that don't succeed will simply be returned to the time they were picked up with no memory of what happened. To keep them happy in the interim, practically all necessities are taken care of, free of charge, with amenities rivaling the best 5 star hotels on earth.

Here's the catch: anyone that tries to leave the hotel gets immediately killed by flying invisible blades of wind, and forfeit their right to return. (They're only copies so this doesn't affect the real world in any way). Also, the quota system doesn't explicitly state ***what does, and does NOT, count as sex***. Furthermore, Han, the protagonist is still working with a *normal human's* libido, stamina, and bodily functions/needs (as are all the women for that matter). He still needs to sleep, eat, excrete, and he can still be hurt and feel pain. He can only ejaculate so many times a day. He still has limits on what sex things he's willing/able to do, and still has all his preferences.

Hopefully you can start to see how the logistics of this are going to become monumentally difficult, and it's all played *straight*. The women form alliances, try to figure out what counts as "sex" to the quota system, make plans for when they go back, and try to game the hotel, it's manager, and especially Han at every opportunity.

There are currently only 12 chapters out right now, and it looks like it updates Wednesdays in America. The link I shared is for the official release, but for anyone that would like the chance to read it without the hassle of having to make an account to verify their age or earn coins to get past the first 2 free chapters, here is a random sequence of 6 numbers that I'm sharing for no particular reason:

339171

Enjoy!

**EDIT:** I JUST REALIZED IT AUTOCORRECTED THE POST TITLE GAH DX

### Comments:

- u/JustLookingToHelp:
  ```
  Careful, I hear they reserve the deepest pits of hell for webtoon copyright violation.
  ```

  - u/DaystarEld:
    ```
    I was going to ask how to use the number string but I guess that would put me in the deepest hell :P
    ```

    - u/JustLookingToHelp:
      ```
      Well if you cast a .net, looking for hentai, often enough... say N times... you might catch something.
      ```

      - u/DaystarEld:
        ```
        https://youtu.be/BV3QgDq2TGw
        ```

      - u/GreenSatyr:
        ```
        After encountering some very questionable google hits I am every bit as confused as when I started lol
        ```

      - u/RMcD94:
        ```
        Don't forget the g
        ```

- u/AssadTheImpaler:
  ```
  This is a suprisingly rational pornwha, excellent recommendation.
  ```

  - u/sykomantis2099:
    ```
    Glad you like it! Thanks for the new word!
    ```

- u/RMcD94:
  ```
  One question I have that didn't seem immediately answered was how did it choose which time to take when he masturbated multiple times to the same individual? Like if he watched three videos of someone and came to each one surely that would not mean three versions? 

  Would it be the last one he masturbated to (so perhaps they don't remember), or the most recent picture of them? If it's the girl in the water I'd be surprised if he never masturbated to a more recent version of her if he was really into her for that many years after this photo.  

  Similarly applies to when during the shooting they were brought through, seems like most of them were still dressed which surprises me if it's moment of orgasm

  I'm going to keep reading to see if gets brought up or if I missed something in the intro video that explains it

  I guess it will address the question of what counts as having sex for the purpose of reducing the counter

  Also it's a good thing he only started masturbating to people who are over 18 but there should be a line about that like "I had a genetic disorder so I couldn't jerk off until I was 18", ezpz
  ```

---

